Updating the amateur
radio licensing
framework

An approach for today and tomorrow's radio
amateurs

Statement

Published 11 December 2023
Contents

Section

1. Overview ......................................................................................................................... 3
2. Background...................................................................................................................... 9
3. Overview and assessment of consultation responses ................................................... 11
4. Impact of our Decisions ................................................................................................. 57
5. Next steps...................................................................................................................... 61
A1. Legal Framework ........................................................................................................... 64
A2. Draft licence .................................................................................................................. 67
A3. Notice of coordination................................................................................................... 98
A4. Special Event Station NoV............................................................................................ 101
A5. Responses.................................................................................................................... 102
1. Overview

1.1 This document sets out our decision to update the amateur radio licensing framework to
         provide greater operating freedom for people using amateur radio, while making the
         process of getting and using a licence simpler and clearer.

1.2 Amateur radio, sometimes known as ham radio, has been an important part of wireless
         communication technology in the UK for more than a century. It is a hobby that involves the
         use of radio equipment to communicate with other amateur radio operators around the
         world. It is a non-commercial service designed for self-training and technical
         experimentation. In the UK, Ofcom is responsible for managing the radio spectrum and
         ensuring that it is used in the best interests of everyone in the country, including users of
         amateur radio. There are more than 100,000 amateur radio licences in the UK currently.

    What we have decided ­ in brief

    We have decided to change the amateur radio licensing framework to make the following
    changes as proposed in the 2023 Consultation document, with some amendments in light of
    the responses to the consultation. The changes will:
    1. Change the licensing framework to:
    · Streamline Notices of Variation (NoV) under the three-tier licensing structure;
    · Update our mechanisms for revalidation while maintaining lifetime licences;
    · Only permit licensees to only hold a single personal licence, requiring the surrender of

         lower level licences as a licensee progresses; and
    · Allow anyone to operate amateur radio under a licensee's supervision.

    2. Streamline and modernise call sign assignment to update call sign allocation policy to:
    · Introduce a new M8 and M9 Intermediate call sign format;
    · Make the use of Regional Secondary Locators (RSL) optional and simplify the process for

         using a special RSL;
    · Introduce the RSL `E' for optional use by radio amateurs operating in England;
    · Simplify the licence terms on the use of call sign suffixes;
    · Allow old call signs to be reissued online, and permit licensees to periodically change

         their call sign;
    · Simplify the rules around Special Event Stations; and
    · Change the number of call signs that can be held.

    3. Adjust technical parameters to reflect the evolving needs of the hobby and provide
         radio amateurs with greater operating freedom by:

    · Increasing the maximum transmit power to allow (i) 25 Watts for Foundation and 100
         Watts for Intermediate licensees in most bands; and (ii) 1000 Watts for Full licensees in
         bands where amateur radio has a primary allocation;

                                                             3
    · Allowing Foundation and Intermediate licensees to use the internet for remote control
         operation;

    · Permitting the deployment of repeaters, beacons and gateways without requiring an
         NoV in most cases;

    · Allowing Foundation licensees to build their own equipment and access the 2.4 GHz and
         5 GHz bands; and

    · Enabling low power airborne use in some frequency bands.

    4. Provide clearer updated rules, with terms and conditions which are easy for everyone
         to understand by:

    · Aligning various terms and conditions with other licences that Ofcom issues;
    · Simplifying conditions to remove unnecessary complexity and make them clearer; and
    · Removing provisions not necessary for spectrum management purposes.

    In response to feedback from stakeholders we have decided to proceed with an amended
    version of our proposal in some areas. We will:
    · Increase the period before a call sign can be reissued or changed to 5 years; instead of

         the proposed 2 years;
    · Increase the permitted transmit power for Foundation licensees to 25 Watts;
    · Increase the permitted transmit power for Foundation licensees in the 2.4 GHz and 5

         GHz bands to 2 Watts; and
    · Allow the use of certain data stations without the need for an NoV.

    To implement many of these decisions we need to make changes to all existing amateur
    radio licences. This means that many of these decisions are subject to the outcome of the
    statutory processes for varying existing licenses. We have therefore decided to start the
    statutory process to vary all amateur radio licences by publishing a General Notice which sets
    out the proposed licence variations. We will publish our final decisions in February 2024
    following the conclusion of this process.

Ofcom is updating the amateur radio licence to enable amateur radio to continue to develop as a
hobby, within a simplified regulatory framework that supports optimal spectrum use
1.3 Ofcom is responsible for managing spectrum to support a wide range of electronic

         communications services across the UK and must ensure that its use is optimised1. In view of
         this, our policy is to set licence restrictions that are the minimum necessary to provide
         adequate protection against harmful interference and meet our other wider regulatory
         duties. We also have a statutory duty to ensure that licence conditions are objectively
         justified in relation to the networks and services to which they relate, non-discriminatory,
         proportionate, and transparent in relation to what they are intended to achieve2. These

1 Section 3(2)(a) of the Communications Act 2003.
2 Section 8(3)(b) of the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006.

                                                             4
         obligations are ongoing and must be assessed against market circumstances and the state of
         technology development at the time.
1.4 Our aim with these changes is to ensure that amateur radio can continue to thrive and
         remain a vibrant and valuable part of the broader communication landscape for years to
         come. We have focused on ensuring our rules are fit for purpose and have aimed to:

           · modernise our policies and rules to allow radio amateurs greater operating
                 freedoms whilst maintaining appropriate regulatory control over spectrum use;
                 and

           · make our rules as clear as possible to improve consistency and responsiveness;
                 aligning with other spectrum areas that we authorise where appropriate.

1.5 Figure 1 provides a summary of how the changes align with our aims.

                                                             5
Figure 1: Key elements of the amateur radio licensing framework changes

           Changes to amateur radio licence                      Modernise our        Clarify and
                                                                policies and rules  streamline our
                                                                to allow greater
                                                                                       rules and
                                                                    operating          processes
                                                                    freedoms

Review of licensing framework

Licensees should only hold a single personal licence                                

Allowing greater supervised third party use of radio            

equipment

Changes to call signs

Introducing a new M8 and M9 Intermediate call sign format                           

Making the use of Regional Secondary Locators (RSL)                                 
optional, with simpler rules

Permitting the optional use of the RSL `E' for all licence                          
classes when operating in England

Simplifying the process for authorising special RSLs                                

Simplifying licence terms on the use of call sign suffixes and                      
allowing their use on an optional basis

Allowing old call signs to be reissued online                                       

When our new licensing platform has been implemented,                               
we will allow licensees to change their call sign periodically

Consistent rules on the number of call signs that can be held                       

A unified, more flexible Special Event Station NoV                                  

Technical parameters review

Increasing the permitted transmit power for all licence levels  

Enabling all licensees to use internet-based technologies for                       
remote control operation

Allowing the deployment of most beacons, gateways, data                             

stations and repeaters without the need to apply for an NoV

Liberalising the Foundation Licence to allow them to build

their own equipment and gain access to the 2.4 GHz and 5        

GHz bands

                                               6
            Changes to amateur radio licence              Modernise our        Clarify and
                                                         policies and rules  streamline our
                                                         to allow greater
                                                                                rules and
                                                             operating          processes
                                                             freedoms

Allowing low power airborne use in some bands            

Licence terms and conditions review

Updating the amateur radio licence to have greater

alignment with standard Ofcom format and licence                             

conditions

Minor changes to the licence template, simplifying and                       
ensuring consistency with CEPT Recommendation T/R 61-01

Update the licence terms and conditions, removing                            
unnecessary complexity and making them clearer

Consultation Overview

1.6 We published a consultation in June 2023 setting out proposals to make a number of
         changes to the amateur radio licences and policies to ensure they meet the needs of today
         and tomorrow's radio amateurs and streamline the licensing process.

1.7 We received 1443 responses to our consultation. There was overall support for all our
         proposed changes, but we did receive some objections and suggestions to improve some of
         our proposals. We have taken all responses into account and have updated some of the
         proposals and definitions used based on these. The changes are detailed in Section 3 and the
         proposed new Licence and Conditions booklet in Annex 2.

1.8 This review of the amateur radio licensing framework is part of a broader effort by Ofcom to
         simplify, standardise, and where possible further automate elements of our licensing work,
         as referenced in Ofcom's Plan of Work 2023-243.

Next steps and implementation

1.9 None of the changes detailed in this statement will take effect now, but we will look to
         implement them as quickly as possible. Many of the decisions set out in this document are
         subject to the outcome of the statutory processes for varying existing licences.

1.10 Accordingly, following this statement, we plan to implement the changes in three phases:

          a) In the first phase we plan to vary the amateur radio licence to incorporate new licence
              conditions, which would include incorporating some NoVs into the licence and allowing

3 WTA (Wireless Telegraphy Act) licence simplification, p45 and Amateur Radio licences review, p46.
                                                             7
              low power airborne use in primary amateur bands. We have today published our
              proposals to vary all amateur radio licences. Further detail around the variation can be
              found in the General Notice published on our website4. For new applicants, the new
              licence will be available from when we have made our decision on the licence variation.
              For existing licensees, our intention is to make the new terms and conditions applicable
              from when we publish our decision statement on the General Notice as it will take some
              time to reissue all licence documents. We anticipate that this will be in February 2024.
          b) In the second phase, we will implement the policies that involve straightforward
              modifications to our existing licensing system or require specific actions from Ofcom
              that can be delivered within our current systems, such as issuing the new M8 and M9
              Intermediate call signs and liberalising the SES NoV. We will strive to implement these
              changes in 2024.
          c) In the final phase, the policies which require a transition to the new spectrum licensing
              platform will take effect, such as enabling people to change call signs. This is part of a
              larger ongoing programme aimed at evolving our current licensing system. We hope to
              deliver the implementation of these changes later in the 2024/25 financial year.
1.11 Further details regarding the timing and substance of each phase are set out in Section 5.
         These plans may be subject to change; we will provide further updates as needed.
    The overview section in this document is a simplified high-level summary only. The decisions
    we have taken, and our reasoning are set out in the full document.

4 Representations to this notice can be made until 5:00pm on 22 January 2024.
                                                             8
2. Background

2.1 Amateur radio has long been subject to regulations and licence conditions, designed to
         ensure the responsible use of the airwaves. Over time, as technology and the hobby have
         evolved, there has been recognition of the need to periodically review and update the
         authorisation framework.

Summary of the Consultation

2.2 The amateur radio licence had not undergone a comprehensive review for some time, and
         many of the provisions had been in place since the end of World War 25. In June 2023 we
         published a consultation Updating the amateur radio licensing framework (the `2023
         Consultation'). This set out our view that the provisions and policies developed around
         amateur radio did not adequately support the needs of today and tomorrow's radio
         amateurs and therefore, we made proposals for a number of changes to the amateur radio
         licensing framework.

2.3 We sought to greatly simplify the UK amateur radio licence and its Terms and Conditions,
         associated documentation and processes. We focused on ensuring our rules are fit for
         purpose, specifically aiming to:

          a) Modernise our policies and rules to allow radio amateurs greater operating freedom
              whilst maintaining appropriate regulatory control over spectrum use;

          b) Make our rules as clear and streamlined as possible, aligning with other spectrum areas
              that we authorise where appropriate to improve consistency and responsiveness.

2.4 Alongside seeking to update our policies and rules considering how radio amateurs operate
         today and may do in the future, our proposals also looked to remove unnecessary
         restrictions or administrative requirements that go beyond our duties of ensuring the
         efficient management of spectrum. Whilst certain restrictions continue to be necessary to
         prevent interference for neighbouring spectrum users or to comply with international
         obligations6, we did consider whether these could be relaxed. We did not propose any
         changes to the available frequency bands that amateurs can access.

2.5 Our proposals fit into four broad categories:

           · Update the overall licensing framework;
           · Streamline and modernise call sign assignment;
           · Adjust technical parameters to reflect the evolving needs of the hobby and

                 provide radio amateurs with greater operating freedom; and

5 The rules placed upon amateur radio are agreed globally at the International Telecommunications Union
(ITU) and are published in the Radio Regulations. Regional rules (which apply across Europe and beyond) are
agreed at the European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT). The UK
amateur radio licence bears the CEPT logo to signify that it conforms to the applicable regional agreement.
6 Article 25.6 of the Radio Regulations.

                                                             9
           · Provide clearer updated rules (terms and conditions which are easy for everyone
                 to understand).

2.6 We considered that these changes would remove a significant amount of complexity
         surrounding amateur radio, saving licensees time and effort in understanding the regulatory
         framework in which they operate and allowing them to feel more confident in
         understanding and applying the rules.

2.7 The consultation opened on 23 June 2023 and closed on 5 September 2023. In the rest of
         this document, we present our consideration of the responses we received and the decisions
         which we plan to take forward on the amateur radio licensing framework.

2.8 The 2023 Consultation set out the legal context within which these changes were proposed.
         This is reproduced in this document in Annex 1. A sample licence and conditions booklet,
         with the changes we proposed marked up is set out in Annex 2. Annex 3 contains a sample
         Notice of Coordination document and Annex 4 a copy of the proposed new SES NoV. Annex
         5 provides details of where to find the non-confidential responses to the 2023 Consultation.

                                                            10
3. Overview and assessment of
  consultation responses

3.1 We received 1443 submissions in response to our consultation. All non-confidential
         responses are published on our website.

3.2 Overall, we received broad support from the amateur radio community for our proposals, as
         shown in Figure 2. Many respondents welcomed the proposals and agreed that by providing
         greater operating freedom and simplifying the licensing process the proposed approach was
         more suited to the needs of today, and the future of amateur radio.

Figure 2: Overview of general response to each consultation question7

Stakeholder comments on our proposals

3.3 In the following section, we have set out the key issues raised in stakeholder responses,
         together with Ofcom's response and our final decision on each proposal. Owing to the high
         volume of responses we have identified key issues and themes raised but have not
         responded to every comment made.

7 Consultation questions can be found at p.100 of the Consultation document.
                                                            11
Q1. Our proposal that licensees should only hold a
single personal licence

3.4 In the 2023 Consultation, we proposed that licensees should only hold a single personal
         licence. This means that existing licensees with multiple licences would only be able to retain
         the highest-level licence and would nominate which licence they wish to keep where
         relevant. We proposed that as licensees progress, their lower-level licence would be
         revoked, in order to ensure the unique identity of a station is maintained and improve
         efficiency in the licensing system8.

Responses

3.5 While 21.7 percent of respondents raised objections, there was majority approval of this
         proposal, with 78.1 percent of respondents signalling that they agreed with what we set out.
         The remaining respondents did not clearly note whether they agreed or disagreed.

Figure 3: Response to Q1 - our proposal that licensees should only hold a single personal licence

3.6 Respondents that agreed with our proposal felt that there was no practical purpose in
         having more than one licence, and it can lead to confusion over identification. Others said
         that this proposal would reduce the administrative burden for both Ofcom, and them, by
         simplifying the licence data.

Issues raised

A radio amateur may use different call signs to signal experimentation
3.7 Several responses highlighted that using different licences and call signs enables separation

         for experiments and provides others with more knowledge of the conditions the individual is
         operating under (e.g., a Full Licence holder utilising a Foundation Licence for low power
         operations). Others suggested they may use different call signs for training themselves or
         others; and if a mistake were to be made, they would not want their main call sign
         tarnished.

8 This approach to licensees holding more than one licence at a given level is consistent with the approach
taken by the Radiocommunications Agency (`RA') when it merged the old `A' and `B' Full-level licences into a
single Full Licence in 2003. Those who held both `A' and `B' licences (and call signs) were required to choose
one and relinquish the other.

                                                            12
3.8 We understand the importance of experimentation to the hobby. There is no requirement
         to utilise a lower licence class for experimentation; however, our proposal to allow the use
         of any suffix offers an alternative means to denote the operating conditions of a station.

A call sign may hold sentimental value
3.9 Some of those objecting to the proposal raised the sentimental value attached to holding

         call signs. The comments highlighted that many users have worked hard and passed exams
         to gain the licences and would therefore like to keep the call sign attached to the licence.
         Many of these comments stated that, in their view, radio amateurs have a right to keep all
         their licences and call signs.
3.10 We recognise the sentimental value which some licensees attach to call signs; under our
         proposal individuals are still able to retain their exam certificates as they progress through
         the licensing system and will be able to choose which call sign they retain. However, we have
         considered these points alongside the anticipated benefits of ensuring the unique identity of
         a station is maintained and improving efficiency in the licensing system.
Concerns that the proposal might lead to overseas licence revocation
3.11 Some comments were received over the drafting of condition 1.2(e) relating to the power
         for Ofcom to revoke a licence if the "licensee holds more than one personal Amateur Radio
         licence of any class", with a concern expressed that the current wording might be
         considered to apply to those who also have a licence issued by foreign administrations.
3.12 We confirm that our proposals only relate to licences that have been issued by Ofcom.
         Where a licensee holds a licence issued by an administration outside of the UK these will not
         be subject to this licence provision. Also, the provision will not apply to any Full (Club)
         licences that a licensee may hold. In light of these concerns, we have made a slight
         amendment to the condition to confirm that this applies to licences issued by Ofcom.
Some licensees use different call signs for RAYNET functions
3.13 RAYNET9 volunteers flagged that the group use their Foundation, or Intermediate, licences
         for emergency calls. Responses stated that this proposal would result in licensees having to
         use their personal call signs for volunteering purposes making it difficult to distinguish
         RAYNET accredited users.
3.14 RAYNET operate under the same amateur radio licensing conditions as other licensees.
         Accordingly, they can apply for a Full (Club) Licence for their RAYNET group if they do not
         wish to operate under a personal call sign in the context Emergency Service volunteering.

9 RAYNET-UK is the UK's national voluntary communications service provided for the community by licensed
radio amateurs.

                                                            13
          Decision
          We have decided to only permit licensees to hold one personal licence, as
          proposed, to ensure the unique identity of a station is maintained and avoid the
          additional costs and administrative burdens which duplication of records in the
          licensing system places on Ofcom. We plan to make the following changes:
          1) Existing licensees with multiple personal licences will be able to retain their

               highest-level licence; in cases where licensees hold multiple Full Licences, they
               can nominate which licence they wish to keep; and
          2) When a licensee progresses to the next level of licence, their lower-level licence
               will be revoked10. For example, when progressing from an Intermediate to a Full
               Licence, the Intermediate Licence will be revoked.

Q2. Our proposal to allow greater supervised third
party use of radio equipment

3.15 We proposed to simplify the rules on third party use. For individual licensees, we proposed
         that anyone should be able to use the radio equipment, providing that this is under the
         direct supervision of the licensee. Regarding Full (Club) Licences, we proposed allowing
         greater freedoms so that any Full licensee, with the permission of the club, may supervise
         others (without licences) to operate the radio equipment. Both measures aimed to remove
         barriers which could impede the hobby's ability to encourage more individuals, particularly
         young people, to participate in the hobby.

Responses

3.16 90.6 percent of respondents signalled that they agreed with this proposal, while 8.9 percent
         raised objections. The remaining respondents did not clearly note a response.

Figure 4: Response to Q2 ­ our proposal to allow greater third party supervised access to radio
equipment

3.17 Those that signalled agreement saw this proposal as a step in the right direction for
         promoting the hobby to others and encouraging people to join it. Other respondents noted

10 Revocation of lower-class licences will be achieved through a proposed Revocation provision in the licence
terms and conditions. This is set out in Condition 1 of the draft amateur radio licence in Annex 1.

                                                            14
         that this would be beneficial for training young people, for instance armed forces cadets and
         Scouts.

Issues raised

Not all respondents felt changes were needed
3.18 Various respondents considered that the current licence clauses on supervised third party

         use were sufficient, commenting that an unlicensed user is already able to send a greeting
         message under the supervision of a Full Licence holder. They noted that the current licence
         also allows Foundation and Intermediate Licence holders to use a club call sign under the
         supervision of a Full licence holder.

3.19 The purpose of our proposal was to both provide greater clarity on guidance that was
         previously considered complex and unclear and also enable greater freedom. We consider
         that enabling unlicensed individuals to actively operate the radio equipment under direct
         supervision would be unlikely to cause interference to others and might also facilitate a
         wider take up of the hobby.

Concerns were raised that poor teaching might lead to poor operating practices
3.20 Many respondents raised concerns around allowing radio amateurs with limited knowledge

         to supervise individuals with no experience, as it could result in the rise of poor operating
         practice. However, a range of views was provided on what level of licence an individual
         should hold before supervising third party access, ranging from Full Licence holders to all
         licensees. Some felt that allowing Foundation Licence holders to teach unlicensed individuals
         could leave the hobby open to abuse, and suggested Ofcom impose a lapsed time-period
         after they gain their licence before they can begin third party supervision.

3.21 Under our proposals the supervising licensee would remain ultimately answerable for the
         operation of the radio equipment; individuals must operate under direct supervision and the
         licensee must ensure that this is done in compliance with all applicable terms and conditions
         of the licence. For instance, an unlicensed individual supervised by a Foundation Licence
         holder can only operate under the terms and conditions of the Foundation Licence.
         Licensees who do not obey the licence conditions could ultimately have their licence
         revoked, receive a fine or face criminal prosecution. We consider that these provisions
         should mitigate potential for abuse or interference from supervised individuals.

Some respondents sought a relaxation on the rules on supervised use in
educational environments
3.22 We received several requests for us to consider relaxing the rules around how many Full

         licensees are required to obtain a Full (Club) Licence in educational environments such as
         schools and universities. The responses suggested that this would further increase visibility
         of, and accessibility to, the hobby by removing unnecessary barriers.

3.23 It is already the case that specific provisions are available for Full (Club) Licence applications
         for educational establishments such as schools and universities, which do not need to be
         supported by two other club members and only one Full licensee is required. We will make
         this clear in the updated Amateur Radio Guidance document.

                                                            15
          Decision
          We have decided to proceed with the changes as set out in the 2023 consultation,
          to allow more supervised third party use of amateur radio equipment to enable
          more people to get involved in the hobby. The changes we plan to make are:
          1) Any unlicensed individual will be able to use the radio equipment, providing

               that this is under direct supervision of the licensee. The licensee must ensure
               that this is done in compliance with all applicable terms and conditions of the
               licence and at all times remains responsible for the operation of the radio
               equipment.
          2) For Full (Club) Licences, where the licensee has agreed, any Full licensee may
               supervise unlicensed individuals to operate the radio equipment.

Q3. Our proposal for all new Intermediate Licence call
signs to start with M8 or M9

3.24 We proposed a new format for Intermediate Licence call signs beginning with `M8' and `M9'
         which would be consistent with Foundation, Full and Full (Club) call sign formats. This would
         allow us to apply uniform rules on the use of RSLs and lead to a consistent format of call
         signs for all licence levels over time. We proposed that new Intermediate licensees would be
         issued a call sign starting `M8' or `M9' and existing licensees would be able to change their
         `2' call sign to the new format if they wished. Existing licensees who wish to continue to use
         a `2' format call sign can do so but would need to continue to include an RSL in the call
         sign11. We proposed that these changes would take effect as part of phase 2 of our
         implementation approach.

Responses

3.25 We found that most respondents were supportive of our proposal. 89.8 percent flagged
         support and 9 percent raised an objection. The remaining respondents did not clearly note
         agreement or disagreement.

11 The call signs we assign under the Intermediate Licence are in the format `20ABC' (formerly `21ABC'). If
transmitted as assigned, this format would not conform to the requirements of Article 19 of the Radio
Regulations. To conform with Article 19, we require licensees to insert a Regional Secondary Locator (RSL) into
an Intermediate call sign, to split the digits.

                                                            16
Figure 5: Response to Q3 - our proposal for all new Intermediate Licences to start with M8 or M9

3.26 Those that supported our proposal saw it as a positive step to align Intermediate call signs
         with the internationally recognisable UK call sign format. It was noted that international
         radio amateurs can find the current `2' prefix call signs confusing and may not identify these
         stations as UK based. Others flagged that the current format of Intermediate call signs has
         held them back from wanting to progress from Foundation to Intermediate and welcomed
         the change.

Issues raised

Concerns were raised over additional complexity in the call sign system
3.27 Those respondents who were opposed to the proposed change argued that it would

         complicate the call sign system in the UK. Some stated that the current call sign system,
         whilst complex at times, is well established and the introduction of `M8' and `M9' call signs
         for Intermediate Licence holders would increase complexity and confusion, in particular as
         Licence holders could continue to hold the former `2' call sign format whilst others would
         have the new `M8' or `M9' format.
3.28 Several respondents also argued that our proposal would negatively impact contests. For
         example, foreign nationals may find it harder to understand call signs if changed. This could
         negatively impact timed contests.
3.29 We recognise that our proposal would create additional call sign formats for Intermediate
         Licence holders but do not believe that this will have a negative impact on the hobby and
         note the strong overall support for this proposal. Further, we note that there are already
         several prefixes available for Full licensees and that the proposals are closer aligned to the
         other call sign formats Ofcom issues. All call sign blocks are published on the Ofcom website,
         which should help mitigate any potential confusion, and we note that several responses felt
         this proposal would have a positive impact on contesting as the new format would be easier
         to communicate. We would also like to reiterate that, for those who already hold an
         Intermediate call sign, this change is optional12. Although we encourage using `M8' or `M9'
         prefixes, Intermediate Licence holders may retain their current `2' format call sign.
Some respondents felt that call sign prefixes should be clearly related to the
licence level
3.30 Although agreeing with the need to simplify the call sign system, some individuals argued
         the prefix should be more clearly tied with the licence level. For instance, Foundation

12 Where they continue to hold the licence.
                                                            17
         Licence call signs should use an `F' prefix, Intermediate Licence call signs an `I' prefix, Full
         Licence holders an `FU' or `M' prefix, and Full (Club) Licence call signs a `C' prefix. Others
         however, argued that the class of licence shouldn't be capable of being determined from a
         call sign.
3.31 It is important to note that call sign allocation blocks are assigned to the UK by the
         International Telecommunications Union (ITU). These call sign blocks are unique to each
         administration, and therefore, Ofcom cannot authorise call signs which have not been
         allocated to the UK. Further information on UK call signs can be found in the ITU's Form of
         call signs assigned by each administration to its amateur an experimental stations
         document.
Concerns were raised over the availability of Foundation Licence call signs
3.32 A few respondents commented on the fact that there are more Foundation licensees than
         Intermediate licensees. Consequently, abandoning the `2' call sign block could result in
         complications should the current Foundation call sign block (`M7') run out. Respondents
         recommended reserving the `M8' format for Foundation licensees.
3.33 We do not believe that there is any immediate issue regarding the availability of call sign
         blocks in the UK. In addition, by allowing individuals to hold only a single personal licence,
         when people progress their lower-level licences will be relinquished. This will mean that,
         after a cooling off period, the relinquished call signs will be available again. As such we do
         not anticipate there being any issues regarding availability of call signs.

          Decision
          We have decided to go ahead with the changes to Intermediate call signs. This as it
          will lead to a consistent format of call signs and remove some of the current
          complexity. We will make the following changes:
          1) We will cease assigning call signs starting with `2' to Intermediate stations,

               instead issuing call signs starting with `M8' or `M9'. We will take this approach
               in all cases.
          2) To facilitate existing licensees wishing to move to the new format; where a call
               sign is on issue in the current format, we will reserve the corresponding call sign
               in the new format for a period of three years. It is important to note that this is
               not mandatory and those who wish to continue using their existing `2' call sign
               can do so, whilst continuing to insert the RSL into their call sign when
               transmitting.

                                                            18
Q4. Our proposal to change our policies on the use of
Regional Secondary Locators (RSLs)

3.34 We proposed to remove the mandatory requirement in the licence to use a RSL and instead
         make their use optional for licensees13. We also proposed to allow licensees in England to
         use the RSL `E' if they wished to do so, and to simplify the process for authorising a special
         RSL. Our aim with the proposals was to simplify our policies in these areas and remove
         unnecessary obligations placed on licensees that were not required for spectrum
         management purposes.

Responses

3.35 We received majority support of 56 percent for our proposal outlined in the consultation,
         whilst 43.6 percent raised concerns. The remaining respondents did not clearly note
         agreement or disagreement.

Figure 6: Responses to Q4 - making the use of an RSL optional

3.36 Some radio amateurs agreed that, by removing the legal requirement and leaving the matter
         to personal choice, we would be simplifying the rules and providing greater freedom. Others
         noted that for those who transmit while mobile, it would reduce the burden on re-
         identifying the station when crossing borders. A number of respondents agreed with our
         introduction of the `E' RSL for those operating in England, noting that it aligns all UK call
         signs. Some respondents highlighted that removing the need for a Notice of Variation
         (NoV)14 for special non-geographic RSLs is beneficial to the hobby and reduces the
         administrative burden on Ofcom.

Issues raised

For some, RSLs are an important part of an amateur's identity
3.37 The most common challenge to this proposal was related to the fact that many view RSLs as

         a part of an amateur's identity. Some of these responses highlighted the ties between the
         use of RSLs and national or cultural identity. For instance, many radio amateurs located in

13 With the exception of intermediate licensees who choose to retain a call sign beginning with `2'.
14 We permit the occasional use of special RSLs to mark special occasions of national significance. Currently,
the use such a call sign, a licensee must apply for and download a special Notice of Variation (`NoV') to their
licence, which is available in most instances from the RSGB's website and attach it to their licence.

                                                            19
         the nations (Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales) raised concerns that removing RSLs
         would reduce the ability to distinguish between radio amateurs operating in the nations and
         England.

3.38 We recognise that RSLs have strong significance for some radio amateurs and that they can
         be tied with their sense of national identity. Our consultation proposals took account of this,
         and the licence will still allow a licensee to use an RSL if they wish to do so. However, on
         balance we believe that this should be a choice for licensees to make rather than having the
         requirement imposed on them as a condition of their licence.

Some respondents supported retaining the current provisions for RSLs
3.39 A number of respondents objected to the proposals, stating that the current provisions

         around RSLs are sufficient to regulate the community and it has become convention
         amongst radio amateurs to use RSLs. Respondents outlined that an RSL can be used to
         better understand the conditions of others they are interacting with. For example, if an
         individual was interacting with someone who had a `W' RSL to reflect their location, it may
         help explain levels of interference (through better understanding of operating conditions).
         Others noted that our proposal would allow a single licence holder to switch between call
         signs, for instance an individual in Scotland, would be able to use both "GM7ABC" and
         "G7ABC" potentially creating confusion.

3.40 It is important to clarify that we are not proposing to prohibit the use of RSLs or remove
         them completely. This proposal makes the use of RSLs optional, and licensees who wish to
         continue using an RSL can carry on doing so.

3.41 The current amateur radio licence has complex rules which require that an RSL must be used
         by the licensee when transmitting their call sign in some situations, but not in others. The
         use of an RSL is not mandated by the Radio Regulations; further we do not believe it is
         appropriate to continue to include legally enforceable requirements that do not appear to
         be necessary to fulfil our spectrum management duties or objectives. The proposal to
         remove the mandatory requirement in the licence is to ensure that radio amateurs aren't
         breaching licence terms and conditions by not using an RSL.

3.42 The core call sign does not include an RSL15, as this may change depending on where in the
         UK a radio amateur is transmitting from.

Our call sign proposals might have implications for the use of external databases
and licensee contact details
3.43 In response to several of our call sign proposals, many respondents flagged the potential

         impact on external online databases. Some people noted that their licences and associated
         call signs are tied to online databases, social media channels and email addresses. They
         argued that restricting a radio amateur to a single personal licence and call sign would
         render these services inaccurate, could result in short-term confusion around identification,
         and would require some radio amateurs to update their personal contact details. Some of
         these responses noted general agreement with our proposals but flagged that there should

15 Except in the case of `2' format call signs.
                                                            20
         be an implementation period to allow radio amateurs to update their information as
         necessary.

3.44 Others stated opposition to our proposal to make the use of RSLs optional as it could impact
         awards-based schemes on databases such as QRZ.com and EQSL.com. Awards-based
         schemes are based on DXCC prefixes (including the RSL) as the `country multiplier', which
         respondents noted could be thrown into disarray by removing the mandatory requirement
         to include an RSL in the call sign.

3.45 We consider that our proposed implementation approach ­ under which the changes to our
         one call sign policy would not be implemented until Phase 2 of the work ­ should provide a
         sufficient period for radio amateurs to nominate the call sign they wish to keep. We are not
         requiring people to change any external database logs or personal contact details. Making
         RSLs optional should have no impact on these sites as they already accommodate UK call
         signs that don't include an RSL. Radio amateurs are able to continue using an RSL for the
         purposes of award schemes.

Making RSLs optional might impact DXCC contests
3.46 Several respondents referred to potential issues that this change may impose on DXCC

         contests. For example, some contests may use a format where an individual looks to find as
         many contacts as possible from a specific country in a certain timeframe and are then issued
         DXCC awards based on their results. It was stated that our proposals would make this type
         of contest harder, especially for contests between England and Wales or Scotland.

3.47 We recognise that RSLs are important to contests, such as DXCC, and amateur radio users
         will be able to continue using them on an optional basis. We do not believe that rules for
         such contests should override our spectrum management duties or require Ofcom to impose
         mandatory conditions in the licence to support this.

          Decision
          We have made the decision to go ahead with the proposals to make the use of RSLs
          optional, as set out in the consultation. We do not believe it is appropriate to
          continue including legally enforceable requirements that are not necessary to fulfil
          our spectrum management duties. The changes we plan to make are to:

          1) Remove the mandatory requirement to use an RSL when operating from the
               licence, making the use of RSLs optional;

          2) Introduce optional use of the RSL `E' for all licence classes when operating in
               England; and

          3) Amend the amateur radio licence to allow licensees to use any special RSL as
               notified by Ofcom to mark special occasions in the UK.

          We recognise that RSLs play an important part of the amateur radio operations and
          confirm that radio amateurs can continue to use them, should they wish to. RSLs

                                                            21
          would only remain compulsory in cases where Intermediate licensees continue to
          use a `2' format call sign16.

Q5. Our proposal to simplify licence terms on the use
of call sign suffixes

3.48 We proposed to remove the licence document references relating to specific suffixes and to
         amend the licence provisions to make clear that licensees may use any suffix, as long as the
         station always remains clearly identifiable. The aim of this was to remove unnecessary and
         confusing rules concerning the use of suffixes from the terms and conditions of the licence
         and instead provide greater operating freedom to licensees.

Responses

3.49 We received 1,332 comments in response to these proposals. 62.9 percent of respondents
         supported the proposals, whilst 36.9 percent signalled objection. The remaining respondents
         did not clearly note agreement or disagreement.

Figure 7: Response to Q5 - making call sign suffixes optional

3.50 Several responses signalled agreement to these proposals, highlighting that these changes
         provide more flexibility for the hobby. Others noted that this could be beneficial for personal
         use of beacons, gateways, and repeaters as the use of suffixes allows radio amateurs to
         demonstrate clearly what activity is being conducted. Many responses caveated their
         agreement with a recommendation that Ofcom should produce some guidance to address
         the risk of offensive and inappropriate use of suffixes17.

16 To conform with Article 19 of the Radio Regulations. The Radio Regulations are globally agreed rules on the
use of radio published by the International Telecommunication Union. Article 19 concerns the identification of
stations.
17 Ofcom has established rules on misuse of Amateur Radio, further information can be found on Ofcom's
website.

                                                            22
Issues raised

Some felt that the suffix proposal could lead to abuse and misuse
3.51 Respondents raised concerns that this proposal could result in an increase in offensive or

         abusive suffixes, as in the absence of specific rules some individuals might step outside the
         boundaries of good operating practice and use these new freedoms to be abusive. Some
         suggested we should provide guidance on this, and potentially restrict the number of digits a
         suffix could use to avoid political messaging.

3.52 We would like to clarify that suffixes are part of the content of a radio amateurs'
         transmission and fall under the Wireless Telegraphy (Content of Transmission) Regulations,
         198818. Any breach of these regulations could be considered a police matter and will be
         referred to the correct authorities as appropriate19.

Some respondents thought Ofcom should mandate specific suffix combinations
3.53 Some respondents recommended that Ofcom should provide a list or clarify which suffixes

         are permitted and when they should be used under the new licence. Responses flagged that
         this would be helpful to better understand which suffixes signify a station's position or
         operating conditions. For instance, many responses flagged `/A', `/M', `/P'; `/MM'; `/AM' as
         the only suffixes required, as all denote pertinent information on the operations of a station.

3.54 At present, whilst the licence references four suffixes, only the use of `/MM' is mandated in
         the licence. However, many more suffixes are currently in use including `/QRP', `/YOTA' and
         `/NHS'. As the suffixes do not form part of the core call sign and are not required for the
         management of the radio spectrum, we do not believe suffixes should be referenced in the
         licence. The hobby is best placed to decide when, and what, suffixes are used.

Concerns were raised over the risk of station misidentification
3.55 Several respondents flagged that allowing the use of any suffix outside of those

         internationally defined could result in the misidentification of stations, as stations may be
         able to fraudulently claim they are operating in another country by adding a suffix to their
         call sign. Concerns were also raised that this proposal could make call signs too long and
         complicated. It was argued that any suffix should be clearly defined and directly related to
         amateur activities to avoid confusion.

3.56 One of the reasons for our proposal is that the existing rules can give rise to confusion, for
         example those around the waterborne use of `M' (`Mobile) and `MM' (`Maritime Mobile').
         We do not think that the recognition and use of suffixes is a matter for spectrum
         management; the amateur community is best placed to determine this.

Some respondents thought Ofcom should limit the number of characters
3.57 Several responses, including those in agreement with our proposal, signalled that we should

         consider limiting the number of characters that an individual is able to use in their suffix. It

18 The Wireless Telegraphy (Content of Transmission) Regulations 1988 make it an offence to use any station
for wireless telegraphy or any wireless telegraphy apparatus to send a message, communication or other
matter in whatever form that is grossly offensive or of an indecent, obscene, or menacing character.
19 Any abuse of this facility would be handled under our established procedures.

                                                            23
         was argued this would help mitigate the risk of suffixes being used for political or offensive
         messages.
3.58 As set out above, we recognise that suffixes remain of great interest to the hobby but do not
         think there is a role for the spectrum regulator in managing their use beyond the Wireless
         Telegraphy (Content of Transmission) Regulations. We do not anticipate any substantial
         negative impact on the hobby from allowing licensees to use whatever suffix they wish, as
         long as the station remains identifiable.

          Decision
          We have made the decision to implement the proposals as set out in the 2023
          Consultation. We believe the rules regarding when they should be used are not
          required to support our spectrum management duties and are best left for the
          hobby to decide. For those reasons we plan to make the following changes:
          1) We will remove references to specific suffixes in the licence document, and
          2) We will amend the licence to make it clear that licensees may use any suffix

               they want, as long as the station remains identifiable.

Q6. Our proposal to amend our call sign assignment
policies

3.59 Call signs are an important element of the hobby but do not hold a spectrum management
         role beyond identifying the licensee when transmitting. We proposed to simplify,
         standardise, and automate some of our call assignment policies by:
          a) Making it possible to select from any available call sign, associated with their licence
              class, when individuals apply online. Old call signs could be reissued after a two-year rest
              period.
          b) Allowing licensees to change their call sign periodically when our new licensing platform
              has been implemented and the proposed new call sign is available20.

Responses

3.60 We received 1,335 comments on this proposal. 58.4 percent agreed with the proposals and
         41.1 percent disagreed. The remaining respondents did not clearly note agreement or
         disagreement.

20 A call sign is available, if it is in the correct format for the class of licence, is not withheld (for example
because it is offensive), is not currently assigned to a licensee and has not been in the past two years.

                                                            24
Figure 8: Response to Q6 - our proposal to amend our call sign assignment policies

3.61 Many respondents saw our proposals around call signs as a step in the right direction to
         increase flexibility and inclusivity in the hobby. They noted that this will allow radio
         amateurs to choose call signs that are easier to transmit.

Issues raised

Some respondents did not think change was necessary
3.62 A number of responses stated that this proposal was unnecessary. Many thought the current

         system to be acceptable; we do not currently re-issue call signs after the licensee has died or
         is no longer licensed, and do not allow people to change their call signs unless there are
         exceptional circumstances. Some recommended that, if we wished to enable the reissue of
         old call signs, this should be restricted to the relatives of a silent key21 only.
3.63 The aim of our proposal was to enable a quicker and more flexible approach for radio
         amateurs. Our current approach does enable some flexibility. For example, applicants are
         currently allowed to select a desired call sign either from the current series22 online or a call
         sign with any other permissible prefix via a postal application. Whilst we do not routinely
         reissue a call sign, our current policies do not prevent this. However, our proposal was to
         automate this process rather than relying on the current manual process, as it would
         improve the process for stakeholders and reduce the administrative burden on Ofcom.
3.64 One of the aims of the review was to simplify our policies and processes to ensure a more
         consistent approach to licensing. We considered that the current restrictions around
         changing call signs were disproportionate. For example, the policy currently requires an
         individual to provide substantial proof that they have exceptional circumstances which
         merits a change of their call sign. These are dealt with on a case-by-case basis. We see no
         spectrum management requirement to maintain these restrictions.
There were requests for Ofcom to make pre-war and short call signs available
3.65 Several responses requested that Ofcom make available pre-World War 2 call signs for long-
         standing Full licensees or Full (Club) licensees23. Other respondents asked for shorter format
         call signs to be made available, with some stating that this should be for Full Licence holders
         only.

21 Amateur radio term for a deceased amateur radio operator.
22 `M7' for Foundation, `20' for Intermediate and `M0' for Full.
23 These begin G2 or a call sign with only two letters in its suffix.

                                                            25
3.66 We acknowledge that some would like to be able to use pre-war call signs, but we currently
         have no plans to make these widely available. The current policy is that a call sign with only
         two trailing letters, or which starts with `G2' is only available if the applicant previously held
         it. Ofcom does make available some Short Contest Call signs (SCC) available via an NoV,
         subject to certain criteria being met24.

It was suggested that Ofcom should issue a single call sign for life
3.67 A few respondents commented that if we were to issue a single call sign for life, individuals

         would more easily be able to identify each other, particularly after progressing through the
         different levels of licenses.

3.68 We recognise this approach might bring some benefits but are not considering this option at
         present given that it would involve a fundamental change to call sign and licensing policy
         and would be likely to generate significant complexity.

Ofcom was urged to consider a longer cool-off period before reissuing old call
signs
3.69 The cool-off period refers to the period when a call sign is inactive, before being made

         available again for reuse by other individuals. In our 2023 Consultation, we proposed that a
         two-year interval would be sufficient for external databases and the community to be aware
         of call sign inactivity. However, several responses indicated that a two-year period is not
         sufficient, particularly in the case of silent keys where sensitivity is required and logbooks
         that are around for longer than two years. We received several suggestions for intervals
         such as three, five, seven and ten years respectively.

3.70 Having considered the responses, we acknowledge the concerns raised, particularly those
         around the distress that could be caused to some individuals. Therefore, we have decided to
         increase the cooling off period to five years to ensure any distress is minimised and provide
         enough time for databases and logbooks to be updated. During this five-year period the call
         sign will not be available to be re-issued in any circumstances, including to family members.

It was requested that Ofcom publish a history of call signs, and a list of available
call signs
3.71 Several respondents asked us to publish the list of available call signs on a routine basis to

         increase transparency. Other responses noted the need to know the history of a call sign,
         particularly if it has been held before.

3.72 We do not hold a list of available online call signs as these are autogenerated by our
         licensing system and produced on demand when an applicant applies for a new call sign.
         Radio amateurs can consent as to whether they wish to have their details published as part
         of a call book. Historical information on call signs may be available online, or via callbooks.

Some respondents suggested Ofcom should charge a fee to change call signs
3.73 A few respondents suggested that Ofcom charge an administrative fee when changing call

         signs. It was argued this would mitigate the risk of irresponsible hobbyists abusing the
         airwaves, by becoming untraceable through a change in call sign.

24 Details on applying for a SCC can be found here.
                                                            26
3.74 For now, we have no plans to charge a fee for changing call signs. This is something we may
         consider in the future once our proposals are implemented.

          Decision
          Call signs are an important element of the hobby but do not hold a spectrum
          management role beyond identifying the licensee when transmitting. Considering
          this, we have decided to proceed with our proposals, with a slight adjustment. The
          changes are:
          1) We will allow users to select any available callsign via our online portal; and
          2) We will enable licensees to periodically change their call sign.
          We have decided to increase the `cooling-off' period to five years, rather than the
          two years proposed in the 2023 Consultation. During this period, an old call sign
          will not be available to be re-issued under any circumstances. This interval will also
          apply to our proposal to allow radio amateurs to periodically change their call signs.
          These changes will be implemented when we transition to our new licensing
          system in 2024/25.

Q7. Implementing consistent rules on the number of
call signs that can be held

3.75 We proposed that each individual licensee should only hold one personal call sign at any one
         time (excluding any temporary special event call signs). In addition, we proposed that Full
         (Club) Licence holders should be allowed to hold a total of five call signs. These provisions
         looked to simplify the process and guidance around obtaining a call sign and offer clubs
         more flexibility to simultaneously operate in different modes, bands, and potentially at
         different locations.

Responses

3.76 We received 1,346 responses to our proposal. Of these, 74.3 percent responded positively,
         whilst 25.2 percent raised concerns or issues. The remaining respondents did not clearly
         note agreement or disagreement.

Figure 9: Response to Q7 - our proposal to implement rules on the number of call signs that can be
held

                                                            27
3.77 Many responses saw this as a sensible approach to reduce the administrative burden on
         both Ofcom and those radio amateurs who currently hold multiple call signs. Some
         individuals noted that this would increase the number of available call signs and suggested
         that suffixes could be used to indicate variants in operating conditions. Others agreed that it
         should be left up to the radio amateur to decide which licence they wish to retain.

Issues raised

Clarification was sought on extra call signs for repeaters, gateways, and contests
3.78 Some respondents expressed concern that our proposals might prohibit them from using

         different call signs when operating repeaters and gateways or during contests.

3.79 To clarify, our proposal only related to personal call signs associated with a personal licence.
         Specific call signs that are assigned to repeaters, beacons, gateways, and contests (currently
         administered by the RSGB through an Ofcom NoV to the licence) are separate and do not fall
         within the parameters of this element of our proposals.

A range of views were expressed on whether Full (Club) Licenses require five call
signs
3.80 Many respondents commented on the number of call signs a club should be allowed. Some

         argued that five is overly generous whilst others claimed it would be insufficient. Several
         respondents disagreed with our proposal to limit personal call signs, also stating that a club
         should only require one call sign.

3.81 Most respondents supported our proposals for allowing Clubs to hold five call signs and we
         believe this is a sufficient number to enable multiple activities, simultaneously.

Some respondents told us they feel a sense of achievement from holding more
than one call sign
3.82 A number of responses signalled that having to give up call signs which they had previously

         earned could diminish a sense of recognition. Comments indicated that our proposal would
         remove a sense of identity related to those call signs, as radio amateurs worked hard to
         achieve these by sitting the necessary exams.

3.83 Some responses signalled that this policy should be limited to new applicants only. This
         would allow existing licensees to continue to hold multiple call signs that they have held for
         several years, to which they feel sentimental attachment. Others claimed that it should be
         judged on a case-by-case basis instead of a catch-all policy.

3.84 There are similarities between this proposal and our proposal to only allow licensees to hold
         a single personal licence, with respondents raising similar objections to both. We discuss our
         thinking in paragraph 3.10.

3.85 Regarding suggestions made to apply this change to new applicants only, to ensure
         consistency and fairness we plan to only allow one call sign per individual licensee, for all
         licensees. The single-call sign concept for individual radio amateurs had previously been
         around for many years until the end of the former BR68 regime in 2009. The ability to hold
         multiple call signs is not historical.

                                                            28
Some licensees use different call signs for experimentation and different
operating conditions
3.86 Several respondents flagged that holding multiple call signs can be useful when operating on

         different frequencies, testing multiple stations or data modes, or demonstrating the
         conditions under which they are operating (e.g., the use of a Foundation call sign to signal
         low power operations). Some argued that radio amateurs should be able to continue using
         more than one call sign should they be able to justify a reason for doing so.
3.87 This proposal is linked with our proposal to allow licensees to hold only a single personal
         licence, and respondents raised similar concerns around experimentation. Please see our
         response in paragraph 3.8 for our response to the concerns flagged.

          Decision
          Given that call signs do not have a wider spectrum management role beyond
          identifying the licensee when transmitting, we are to implement the changes as
          proposed to simplify and standardise some of our call sign processes. We are
          therefore going to:
          1) Limit individuals to one personal call sign at any one time and propose to vary

               any existing licence which permits more than one specific call sign to reduce the
               number to one per personal licence25.
          2) Limit individuals to one personal call sign at any one time and allow Full (Club)
               licensees to hold a total of five licences/call signs.

Q8. Simplifying special event call signs

3.88 There are currently two types of temporary Special Event Stations NoVs that Ofcom
         provides: Special Event Stations (SES) and Special Special Event Stations (SSES). We proposed
         to discard the distinction between SES and SSES and instead permit the use of a more
         permissive SES NoV, as we saw no spectrum management reason for a distinction between
         the two. This proposal looked to simplify the processes and rules relating to special event
         call signs and relieve some of the administrative burden it has previously caused26.

Responses

3.89 We received 1,302 responses in reply to question 8, of which 91.9 percent agreed with our
         proposal, whist 7.5 percent raised issues or concerns. The remaining respondents did not
         clearly note agreement or disagreement.

25 Excludes Full (Club) Licence.
26 Policy on temporary call signs and call sign enhancement, Ofcom March 2018, section 4.

                                                            29
Figure 10: Responses to Q8 - our proposal to simplify special event call signs

3.90 There was overwhelming agreement with the proposed changes. Supporters noted that SES
         are useful to demonstrate and promote the hobby, and simplifying the process offers
         greater freedom to Clubs. Others agreed that Ofcom's role should be one of spectrum
         management and licence administration and less about `applications' of the hobby27.

Issues raised

Some respondents called for more SES call signs
3.91 Some respondents said they would like a wider range of SES call signs. For example, some

         said that that limiting SES to a `GBx' format would mean that previous call signs such as
         `m2000a' would not have been possible. They said they would prefer to see a wider range of
         call signs available for special events as it would give them a wider range of options to
         choose from.
3.92 Whilst we are not making changes to formats of SES call signs at this time, we may consider
         allowing different prefix blocks at a later time, or in relation to significant events as has been
         done in the past. This is providing that they comply with the UK's call sign allocations from
         the ITU.
Some respondents felt the proposed maximum 11 character call sign length was
too long
3.93 A small number of respondents considered that 11-character call signs are too long and
         could potentially hamper reliable identification of a station. Others were concerned that,
         because of the proposed allowed length, SES call signs could be used as a publicity tool.
3.94 The aim of a SES is to showcase the hobby to the general public or promote the event to the
         amateur radio community. Under our proposals the 11-character limit is the maximum
         length that would be permitted; applicants would be able to choose shorter call signs if they
         wish. We would expect licensees to choose appropriate call signs in relation to the event the
         station is associated with.
More clarity was sought on the proposed duration and cooling-off periods for
SES NoVs
3.95 Some respondents raised questions around our proposal to make an NoV valid for one year
         instead of a maximum of 28 days, specifically whether this meant 28 days within a year, or
         28 operational days. The RSGB suggested that an SES call sign should be valid for six months

27 Section 3(2)(a) of the Communications Act 2003.
                                                            30
         rather than a year, with a better-defined resting period before a call sign can be applied for
         by other applicants. Some other respondents recommended that the cooling off period for a
         SES call sign should be two years.
3.96 For clarification, SES NoVs would be valid for up to one year or the duration of the event,
         whichever is shorter. We have considered the points made but continue to consider that
         one year is a sufficient rest period for SES Call signs, due to the temporary nature of the
         station. We provide an updated SES NoV document in Annex 4.

          Decision
          Our decision is to withdraw the SSES call sign NoV and introduce a more permissive
          SES NoV, as there is no spectrum management purpose for a distinctive process
          between the two. This will include:
          1) Extending the available call signs to a maximum 11 characters in length, in the

               format `GBxcccccca'. Licensees will be able to choose any SES call sign, as long
               as they start `GBx' and end with a letter.
          2) Make permanent the decision we took during lockdown to relax a requirement
               that a SES event must be available to the general public. We believe such a
               restriction is not required for spectrum management purposes.
          3) Reduce the resting period for a call sign from two years to one year, in light of
               the temporary nature of the station. We would however retain the six-month
               period before an SES when it can be applied for.
          4) Make the NoV valid for up to one year instead of a maximum of 28 days.
          5) Permit the dates of operation not to be consecutive, enabling radio amateurs to
               mark a series of events planned throughout the year.
          6) Permit mobile or peripatetic operation.
          We are not changing the arrangements for Permanent Special Event Stations or
          Special Contest Call signs.

Q9. Increasing the permitted transmit power for all
licence levels

3.97 The class of amateur radio licence determines the maximum permissible power level a
         licensee is able to use. In light of the objectives of the review, we reconsidered the
         maximum power that we permit.

3.98 For Foundation and Intermediate Licences, we looked at bands in which we permit the Full
         Licence to use up to 400 Watts Peak Envelope Power (`PEP')28. Where such a band is

28 Separate provisions apply to some specific bands, as well as proposed authorisations for airborne use. The
full detail of proposed power limits is set out in annex A2 in the proposed licence Schedule 1 tables A-C.

                                                            31
         available under a Foundation Licence, we proposed an increase in the maximum permissible
         power to 20 Watts (13 dBW) PEP. Where it is also available under an Intermediate Licence,
         we proposed to increase the maximum permissible power to 100 Watts (20 dBW) PEP. For
         Full Licences, where a band is described in the amateur radio licence schedule 1 as being a
         `primary' amateur radio band, we proposed to increase the power available to 1000 Watts
         (30 dBW) PEP.

Responses

3.99 We received 1,357 responses to our proposal, of which 82.4 percent signalled agreement, 16
         percent disagreed, and the remaining respondents did not clearly note agreement or
         disagreement.

Figure 11: Response to Q9 - our proposal to increase the transmit power for all levels

3.100  There was clear support for our proposal to increase maximum power levels. Those that
       agreed considered that this was long overdue and will bring the UK in line with other
       countries that already allow increased power levels. Respondents signalled that this could be
       beneficial to experimentation, portable radios, and transmission in rural areas.

Issues raised

Some respondents considered that current power levels are appropriate

3.101  Several people felt that current power levels are appropriate, saying that they are able to
       `travel the world with 50 Watts', and the proposed increase is unnecessary. One response
       stated that whilst there was no objection to raising power levels for lower licence classes
       (e.g., Foundation and Intermediate), they saw no reason to increase power levels for the Full
       Licence, particularly in the bands above 70 MHz. Some also felt that there doesn't appear to
       be a spectrum management need for power increases.

3.102 Some respondents argued that current power level limits aren't enforced and are regularly
         abused; they asked Ofcom to clamp down on individuals who abuse the current maximum
         permitted power levels.

3.103  As advised by a number of respondents, our proposals bring the UK power limits into line
       with many other countries that permit higher powers. Within these limits radio amateurs
       can operate at power levels best suited to their needs so long as they remain within the
       boundaries of what the licence permits. For those who operate outside of the permitted
       levels, Ofcom retains the right to take enforcement action such as revoking their licence,
       imposing a fine or pursuing criminal prosecution.

               32
There is limited equipment availability at 20 Watts

3.104  We proposed to increase the maximum permissible power for Foundation Licences to 20
       Watts PEP. Many responses flagged that nearly all commercially made radios do not have a
       power step at 20 Watts, and most allow 5 Watts, 25 Watts, or 50 Watts. They stated that, by
       limiting the maximum permissible power for Foundation licensees to 20 Watts PEP, we
       would restrict actual usage to 5 Watts PEP.

3.105  In response to this feedback, we decided to slightly amend our proposals and increase the
       maximum permissible power for Foundation Licences to 25 Watts (13.9 dBW) PEP as we do
       not believe this would increase the likelihood of harmful interference being caused to other
       users.

Concerns were raised about the potential environmental impact of permitting
increased power levels

3.106 A number of respondents have suggested that the new proposals make the hobby less
         environmentally friendly as higher power levels use more energy.

3.107  It is important to reiterate that maximum permissible powers are the limits applied in the
       licence Terms and Conditions, it is not a requirement to transmit at these powers should
       radio amateurs prefer to use lower powers. While we recognise the increasing importance
       of climate change and sustainability, we do not currently have any formal duties relating to
       the environment.

Concerns around different maximum power levels in other countries

3.108 Some respondents commented that power limitations for Foundation Licences vary across
         Europe. Therefore, in their view our proposal would create a greater gap between countries'
         power limits, resulting in more asymmetries among operating conditions across the world.

3.109  It is worth noting that asymmetries already exist globally, as it is the responsibility of
       national administrations to assign power limits which are not subject to harmonisation.
       Increasing our power limits aligns our licences more closely with other European countries,
       such as Italy and France.

       Decision

       One aim of this review was to grant greater operating freedom for radio amateurs
       where possible. Considering this, and the majority positive feedback to our
       proposal, we plan to:

       1) Increase the maximum permissible power for Intermediate Licence holders to
           100 Watts PEP in bands where we currently permit the Full Licence to use up to
           400 Watts PEP.

       2) Increase the maximum permissible power for Full Licence holders to 1000
           Watts PEP in `primary' amateur radio bands, as we do not believe it will risk
           disruption to other users as similar or higher powers are already in use in
           neighbouring countries by radio amateurs.

       3) Continue to use PEP as the primary measure of radio amateur transmit power
           for most standard operations, with separate requirements for some specific

       33
               operations29 and in relation to Electromagnetic Field (EMF) safety
               requirements.
          We also plan to slightly amend the power limits proposed for Foundation Licence
          holders only. For Foundation licensees, we will propose that the maximum
          permissible power will be 25 Watts (13.9 dBW) PEP instead of 20 Watts proposed in
          the 2023 Consultation.
          The power increases would apply to 22 Foundation Licence bands (69 percent of all
          bands), 50 Intermediate Licence bands (93 percent) and 19 Full Licence bands (34
          percent). Full details regarding which bands this applies to are set out in Schedule 1
          of the draft Amateur Licence Conditions Booklet contained in Annex 2.

Q10. Enabling all licensees to use internet-based
technologies for remote control operation

3.110 We proposed that any amateur radio licensee be permitted to use a non-amateur frequency
         method of connection such as the internet. Currently this is restricted to holders of a Full
         Licence.

Responses

3.111 86.3 percent of respondents agreed with our proposals, whilst only 13.2 percent raised a
         comment of concern and 0.5 percent did not clearly note agreement or disagreement.

Figure 12: Response to Q10 - our proposed changes to remote control operation

3.112  Many respondents considered that this change is long overdue, noting that remote control
       operation via an internet link is a reliable and straightforward operation. This would make it
       easier for Foundation and Intermediate licensees to set up links to remotely control their kit,
       and it is beneficial for the hobby to continue to evolve.

29 For example, proposed power limits relating to airborne use, as well as those relating to the use of
repeaters, gateways, and beacons which we have expressed in ERP/EIRP.

                                                            34
Issues raised

Some respondents questioned the need for change

3.113  A number of respondents were reluctant for the amateur radio community to use the
       internet for remote control operations, considering that the current rules were sufficient
       and true to the essence of the hobby. Others felt that the rules should remain restricted to
       Full Licence holders only and stated that Intermediate and Foundation licensees would not
       have the required knowledge to use internet-based technologies for remote control
       operation.

3.114  We have reviewed these comments but consider that enabling the use of the internet for all
       licensees will support the modernisation of the hobby, provide greater operating freedom,
       and align the rules with the needs of todays and tomorrow's radio amateurs. It is already the
       case that Full Licence holders may use the internet. Further, Foundation and Intermediate
       Licence holders have always been able to do remote control operation via an amateur radio
       frequency (RF) link; our proposal looks to expand on this by allowing internet-based
       connections.

Some respondents queried the definition of remote control operation

3.115  It was noted that the new definition for remote control operation does not permit the use of
       the radio equipment by anyone other than the licensee and does not permit general
       unsupervised use. Some respondents requested clarification on the implications of the new
       definition for remote control operation. By way of example, one respondent queried
       whether a group of radio amateurs building a remote station would need to form a Club
       and, if so, whether they would be able to use their own call sign when operating?

3.116  Clause 10(3) of the current Amateur Radio Licence does not permit the use of radio
       equipment capable of remote-control operation for general unsupervised use by other
       amateurs and this would continue to be the case. The licence does not prohibit the use of
       shared equipment but when using it the licensee must be in compliance with the conditions
       of their licence, such as having their licence information displayed on the radio equipment.

RAYNET members had concerns around the language related to the termination
of operations

3.117  RAYNET members flagged that the language around operation termination should be
       amended. Whilst our proposal would update the licence Terms and Conditions to state that
       "transmissions from the Radio Equipment can be terminated immediately", they advised
       that it may not always be possible to shut down a remote station immediately.

3.118  To take account of the fact that remote control operations cannot always be terminated
       immediately we propose to amend the text in condition 6.10 of the new Amateur Conditions
       Booklet to state, "transmissions from the Radio Equipment can be terminated promptly".
       This should give radio amateurs time to terminate beacon transmissions promptly in all
       situations without potentially breaching the conditions of the Licence.

               35
       Decision

       We see no spectrum management reason to prohibit amateur radio use of the
       communication links such as Wi-Fi or the internet. Taking this into consideration,
       we plan to:

       1) Allow any licensee to use a non-amateur frequency method of connection, such
           as the internet.

       To ensure that radio amateurs have time to terminate transmissions from remotely
       controlled radio equipment, we propose to amend the text in Condition 6.10 to
       read "transmissions from the Radio Equipment can be terminated promptly".

Q11. Allowing the deployment of some beacons
without the need to apply for an NoV

3.119  In our 2023 Consultation, we proposed that all licensees should be able to deploy beacons
       providing the radiated power limit does not exceed 5 Watts ERP. In addition, we proposed
       that Intermediate and Full licensees will be able to use powers up to a limit of 25 Watts ERP
       subject to the licensee obtaining a necessary call sign from the RSGB or other bodies
       stipulated by Ofcom30. To deploy a beacon, the licensee must not cause interference to
       other radio users.

3.120  To ensure this, we proposed that the licensee must be able to demonstrate that they have
       taken steps to minimise the risks of undue interference to other authorised users. We
       proposed to state in our guidance that one way to demonstrate compliance could be to have
       the beacons coordinated via the RSGB's Emerging Technology Coordination Committee
       (ETCC), though this need not be the only method of compliance.

Responses

3.121 82.8 percent of respondents signalled agreement to these proposals. However, 16.7 percent
         raised concerns, whilst 0.5 percent did not indicate a clear agreement or disagreement in
         their response.

Figure 13: Response to Q11 - our proposed changes to Beacon operation

30 Or any other body that Ofcom may designate in the future as being capable of such allocation.
                                                            36
3.122  Respondents flagged that this proposal would enable better flexibility for radio amateurs,
       while making the hobby more accessible by enabling Foundation licensees to build upon
       their learning and improve their knowledge through practical operation. Others stated that
       this could encourage more technical innovation and research into radio propagation.

Issues raised

Some felt that our proposals could cause further interference

3.123  A common objection was that liberalisation of beacons may cause further interference in
       existing beacon networks. Some respondents recommended that all new applications should
       be vetted by an NoV to ensure that the RSGB can coordinate the use of beacons, but without
       a requirement to revalidate annually. Other responses went further, suggesting that
       coordination around frequency and location should be retained to ensure interference can
       be mitigated.

3.124  Although we appreciate the concerns raised, our proposal included provisions to ensure that
       licensees must evaluate the risk of interference to other users and be able to provide
       evidence of this if requested. As explained, one way to demonstrate compliance could be to
       have the beacons coordinated via the RSGB's ETCC, though this need not be the only
       method of compliance. If, when asked, a licensee fails to provide adequate evidence to
       demonstrate their methodology and steps they took to minimise the risk of interference, it
       would be a breach of the licence and we can require that the beacon to cease operation.
       Given that all amateur radio licences contain a blanket requirement to not cause
       interference, we consider that this provides an adequate safeguard to other users.

Use of beacons should be reserved for Full Licence holders

3.125  A small number of responses said that the use of beacons should be reserved for Full Licence
       holders only, owing to the complexities in operating them. These respondents argued that
       Foundation and Intermediate licensees do not have the adequate technical knowledge to
       operate them.

3.126  Under the current licence, Foundation and Intermediate licensees are already able to deploy
       beacons. Restrictions were placed on these licence classes for unattended operation only.
       We do not believe it is necessary to continue imposing these restrictions, so long as the
       licensee can demonstrate they have taken steps to minimise the risk of undue interference.

Ofcom should reconsider the references to Schedule 2 in the licence

3.127  A number of respondents, particularly the RSGB and RAYNET members, raised concerns over
       how Schedule 231 was referenced in the licence. They advised that the provision stating that
       a beacon must "only transmit on the frequency bands and at the locations set out in
       Schedule 2 of the Licence" was incorrect. Instead, Schedule 2 should only refer to where
       restrictions are placed on the operation of a beacon in order to protect certain locations.

31 Schedule 2 sets out additional restrictions which apply to the unattended operation of beacons.
                                                            37
3.128 Several respondents additionally queried why a 5 Watt ERP limit has been imposed on
         beacon operation, when a 25 Watt ERP limit has been in place for many years and was also
         included in Schedule 2 of the licence.

3.129  We acknowledge the error made in the consultation draft of the licence. After reviewing the
       beacon provisions again, we have decided to delete Schedule 2 of the licence. Instead, we
       have included a simplified version of the unattended beacon conditions, based on the
       RSGB's suggested text, in a new Notice of Coordination document that all licensees must
       comply with. A copy of this is included in Annex 3 of this document.

3.130 We have reinstated the maximum radiated power limit for beacons of 25 Watts ERP for
         Intermediate and Full licensees. This is subject to licensees obtaining a call sign from the
         RSGB, or any other body authorised by Ofcom.

Clarification on the process for beacons operating above 25 Watts ERP

3.131 Several respondents raised the point that some propagation beacons require greater power
         than 25 Watts ERP to be useful, and questioned whether these would still be allowed under
         our new framework, subject to verification of technical parameters.

3.132  We would like to clarify that beacons using power above 25 Watts ERP will still be allowed
       for Full and Intermediate Licence holders if authorised under an NoV. Radio amateurs will
       have to go through the current process and obtain a special call sign from the RSGB to
       operate at higher power levels.

       Decision

       Given the overall support for our proposed changes to beacon operation, we plan
       to:

       1) Allow all licensees to deploy beacons providing the power limit does not exceed
           5 Watts ERP.

       2) Permit Intermediate and Full licensees to use powers up to a limit of 25 Watts
           ERP subject to the licensee obtaining a necessary call sign from the RSGB or
           other bodies stipulated by Ofcom32.

       To ensure that there is no undue interference caused by beacon deployment, we
       will propose that the licensee must be able to demonstrate that they have taken
       steps to minimise the risks of interference to other authorised users. We intend to
       state in our guidance that one way to demonstrate compliance could be to have
       the beacons coordinated via the RSGB's ETCC, though this need not be the only
       method of compliance.

       If, when asked, a licensee fails to provide adequate evidence to demonstrate the
       methodology and steps they took to minimise the risk of interference, it may be a
       breach of the licence and we can require that the beacon to cease operating.

32 Or any other body that Ofcom may designate in the future as being capable of such allocation.
                                                            38
       All conditions associated with radio beacon operation are relevant to both
       attended, and unattended, beacons.

Q12. Enabling all licensees to connect to the internet
over gateways33

3.133  We proposed that all licensees be able to connect the internet via a low power gateway
       without an NoV. We believe there are benefits in making connection to the internet
       significantly easier and our proposal laid out our plans discard the need for a gateway NoV
       for low power amateur radio equipment connection to the internet by authorising this
       within the licence. We also set out our plans to relax restrictions on unsupervised access.

Responses

3.134 Overall, we received positive feedback to this proposal. 82.7 percent of respondents agreed
         with our proposals, while only 16.5 percent raised objections. The remaining respondents
         did not clearly note agreement or disagreement.

Figure 14: Response to Q12 - our proposed changes to gateways

3.135  Many respondents highlighted this as a positive change as it will allow more radio amateurs
       to experiment with different operating modes, enable greater flexibility, and represent the
       state of current technology. Others flagged how this could appeal to a wider range of non-
       radio amateurs, encouraging a greater take up of the hobby.

Issues raised

Some raised concerns that interference could increase by liberalising gateways

3.136  One concern raised by several respondents was the potential for increased interference, as
       each gateway has a footprint in which no other radio equipment is permitted. Some
       respondents questioned how this would be coordinated as it could lead to congestion and
       jamming in some frequency bands. Others questioned whether Ofcom would define a lower
       power limit which would not require consultation with the RSGB before operating.

33 "Gateway" means radio equipment that receives on a single frequency for the purpose of connecting to
other non-amateur networks.

                                                            39
3.137  As we set out in the 2023 Consultation, low power gateways which operate under 5 Watts
       ERP, will no longer require a call sign obtained from the RSGB. Radio amateurs with a Full
       Licence who wish to operate a gateway above 5 Watts would still have to obtain an NoV.
       Concerning the risk of possible interference, licensees must also evaluate the risk of
       interference to other users and be able to provide evidence of this if requested. We note
       that some gateways transmit using very low power34 and are therefore unlikely to cause
       interference. For higher power devices, as we explained, one way to demonstrate
       compliance could be to have the gateway coordinated via the RSGB's ETCC, though this need
       not be the only method of compliance. If, when asked, a licensee fails to provide adequate
       evidence to demonstrate methodology and steps they took to minimise the risk of
       interference, it may be a breach of the licence and we can require that the equipment cease
       operating35. Given that all amateur radio licences apply a blanket requirement to not cause
       interference, we consider that this provides an adequate safeguard to other users.

Some respondents suggested increased power limits in rural areas

3.138  Some respondents advocated for permitting higher power limits for gateways in rural areas,
       for example suggesting that a maximum permitted power of 10 Watts would enable radio
       amateurs in rural areas to operate on a par with those who live in urban areas. Others felt
       that power levels for gateways should match those allowed for repeaters to ensure
       consistency. A small minority of respondents argued that some radio amateurs would be
       unlikely to operate within the power constraints Ofcom has set in uncontrolled
       environments if no was coordination in place.

3.139  We consider that the proposed power levels are suitable given that most gateways currently
       processed by the RSGB operate under 5 Watts ERP. Should the holder of a Full Licence wish
       to operate a gateway above the power level set out in the licence, it is possible to do so by
       applying for an NoV to their licence.

Concerns were raised about the lack of coordination of different users

3.140  A few issues were raised concerning how the proposal to relax the restrictions and liberalise
       the use of gateways could result in them being "the only thing operating in a band".
       Therefore, some respondents felt that all new gateway applications should be vetted
       through a NoV on a one-time basis. A small number of respondents asked if operation would
       be allowed in primary bands only; and if we have band plans that clearly state which
       frequencies can be used for gateways. The RSGB also highlighted that the text in the
       Conditions booklet needs to clarify that RF network links on repeater inputs require the
       repeater keeper's permission.

3.141 The RSGB, and others, develop band plans which help amateurs avoid clashing modes36. The
         RSGB have signalled that they are looking at frequency options for low power gateways.
         Additionally, as suggested by the RSGB, we plan to include a new provision in the licence

34 Below 100 mW.
35 More information around reporting interference can be found on the Ofcom website.
36 For example, RSGB 432MHz Band Licence Conditions.

                                                            40
       that requires that before a third-party RF network link can connect to a repeater, they must
       have the repeater keeper's permission to do so.

Further clarification was sought on the definition and operating requirements of
gateways

3.142  Some concerns were flagged around the lack of clarity regarding the relationship between
       gateways, repeaters, and data. Some respondents felt that the removal of wording that
       specifically referenced the sending of data packets in the new definition would result in
       confusion. It was suggested that characteristics of a gateway need to be clarified to ensure
       all current modes of operation remain in scope.

3.143  We received a handful of responses asking for further clarity on the operating requirements
       of gateways. For example, some mentioned that it needs to be clearer on whether gateways
       need to be operated from main station address or not. Others asked for clarity on what
       categories apply to packet and other data-based stations, or questioned what types of
       gateways are permitted, such as analogue or duplex hotspots.

3.144  Having considered these responses, we have proposed to amend the definition to:
       "Gateway" means radio equipment that transmits and receives on a single frequency for the
       purpose of connecting to other non-amateur networks. This amendment removes reference
       to the internet, leaving scope for other mediums of connectivity as well as a range of
       different data modes. Gateways can be operated at any location but if the gateway is
       unattended, then the licensee must adhere to the provisions relating to this type of use in
       their licence. We believe the decisions on the types of Gateway operation that licensees use
       should be for the amateur community and not Ofcom to decide.

       Decision

       One of our overarching aims was to provide greater operating freedom for radio
       amateurs where we do not think this would lead to increased interference risks.
       Given the feedback from respondents on our proposals we plan to:

       1) Discard the need for a gateway NoV when operating below 5 Watts ERP.

       2) Relax the restrictions around unsupervised use of the equipment by other radio
           amateurs, making it easier for individuals to gain access to the internet via a
           gateway.

       We will propose a slightly adjusted definition of a gateway upon feedback from the
       RSGB and others; the proposed definition now reads: "Gateway" means radio
       equipment that transmits and receives on a single frequency for the purpose of
       connecting to other non-amateur networks.

       Where a gateway operates in a dog-leg (via a repeater), the general rules for the
       use of a repeater will continue to apply.

       Where a gateway operates above 5 Watts, a NoV is still required.

       41
Q13. Deployment of repeaters without the requirement
for an NoV for Intermediate and Full licence holders

3.145  We looked to relax some of the conditions in the licence to allow Intermediate and Full
       licensees to deploy a repeater without the need for an NoV, subject to certain conditions
       being met. We proposed to allow Intermediate and Full, Full (Club) or Full (Temporary
       Reciprocal) Licence holders to deploy low power repeaters (under 5 Watts ERP) without the
       need for an NoV, and allow holders of a Full, Full (Club) or Full (Temporary Reciprocal)
       Licence to deploy repeaters at powers above 5 Watts ERP once a specific call sign has been
       obtained from the RSGB, or other body stipulated by Ofcom.

3.146  Similar to our proposals for beacons, the licensee would need to demonstrate how they
       have addressed the risk of interference to other radio users. We said that we would not
       stipulate how this must be done, but coordination via the ETCC process would be one way of
       achieving this.

Responses

3.147 We received 1,260 responses to this proposal. 77.1 percent of respondents agreed with our
         proposed changes, 22.5 percent responded `no', flagging concerns. The remaining
         respondents did not clearly note agreement or disagreement.

Figure 15: Response to Q13 - our proposed changes to repeaters

3.148  Most respondents agreed with our proposed changes to repeaters, noting this will be
       beneficial to radio amateurs in rural areas and could increase the number of experiments.
       Others noted that Intermediate licensees are well qualified and enabling them to operate
       repeaters would not force them to progress to the Full Licence. RAYNET members
       highlighted that this would have a positive impact on their activities, particularly in
       circumstances where they may need a temporary repeater on air.

Issues raised

Some respondents felt that higher power levels were required for repeaters

3.149  One of the most common responses to our proposed changes was around the need for
       greater power for repeaters, specifically for primary bands. Some respondents suggested
       that we could regulate an upper power limit, and that maximum permitted power should be
       specific to each band. The RSGB flagged that there should be an explicit limit of 25 Watts
       ERP.

               42
3.150  We acknowledge the comments raised and plan to include an upper power limit of 25 Watts
       ERP in the licence. We note that the vast majority of repeaters today operate within the
       conditions set out in the licence. In certain special cases a repeater may be needed with
       power levels exceeding this limit, this would require a NoV to a Full Licence, and we would
       consider any application for these on a case by case basis.

We were requested to expand the scope of the new repeater definition

3.151  Several respondents, alongside the RSGB, flagged some concerns with the proposed
       repeater definition. It was highlighted that, although the definition consulted on does cover
       the majority of NoVs in scope, it would leave a number out of scope. The RSGB
       recommended that we modify the definition to clearly incorporate non-simultaneous store
       and forward messaging and single-frequency time-division duplexing (TDD) systems.

3.152 We have considered the overall feedback and have amended the definition, taking
         suggestions from the RSGB into consideration. The repeater definition now reads: "Repeater
         means radio equipment that is capable of reception and retransmission".

Some respondents raised concerns around interference and coordination

3.153  We received various comments related to coordination of repeater use and interference.
       Several radio amateurs suggested vetting new applications, while removing the requirement
       of annual renewal. Some suggested that coordination should remain mandatory, and that
       clearance should be required from the ETCC, as it could help ensure that private repeaters
       do not congest bands in specific areas. Others recommended that location of repeaters
       should be recorded to reduce the risk of interference, and more clarification around how
       allowed frequencies will be identified and managed.

3.154  There remains an obligation on licensees to demonstrate how they have addressed the risk
       of interference to other radio users, and the RSGB do develop band plans which may
       support coordination. We also note that the overall response from radio amateurs signalled
       strong support for the proposals as set out in the consultation.

3.155  In addition to these general provisions regarding assessing interference, in some bands (430
       ­ 440 MHz and 1240 ­ 1325 MHz) there will continue to be a requirement for any repeater
       to be coordinated with the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) and Ministry of Defence (MoD)
       before any transmissions may begin. Under the new process, clearance requests for the
       deployment of a repeater in these bands must still be sent to Ofcom. Clearance requests
       should only be sent once a provisional call sign has been obtained from the RSGB and the
       applicant has conducted the necessary interference assessment and has provided evidence
       of this as part of the clearance request. If the clearance application is successful Ofcom will
       provide the necessary clearance authorisation, where coordination is possible. We will
       continue to work with the CAA and MoD about these arrangements.

Concerns from RAYNET members

3.156  Various members from RAYNET signalled that they thought that all unattended repeaters
       should still require a specific call sign. However, they also stated that applying for and using
       individual special call signs for the operation of every one of their temporary repeaters
       would be impractical. They flagged that RAYNET often operate repeaters above 5 Watts and
       proposed a special permit set for such operations, with predefined call signs. Some RAYNET
       members requested to be a notified body for issuing repeater call signs.

                              43
3.157  Under our proposals repeaters with a power limit above 5 Watts would continue to require
       the licensee to obtain a call sign and NoV. We do not believe it is necessary to require all low
       power repeaters to have a call sign as the risks of any interference are low. We will further
       engage with both the RSGB and RAYNET on the use of temporary repeaters to discuss the
       call sign and clearance process, including the possibility of RAYNET becoming a designated
       body for repeater call signs.

Repeaters should only operate on frequencies above 28 MHz

3.158  The RSGB, in their response, flagged that the current repeater NoV only allows operation of
       repeaters on frequencies above 28 MHz for reasons of spectrum efficiency, international
       high frequency protection and coordination. They recommended that this be included in the
       licence terms and conditions given the proposed removal of the NoV requirement.

3.159 We agree with the RSGB's suggestion and we propose to introduce a provision to the licence
         noting that repeaters must operate on frequencies above 28 MHz, under condition 6(14).

       Decision

       Given the feedback from respondents, we plan to proceed with the repeater
       proposals as set out in the 2023 Consultation. By embedding many of the current
       NoVs into the standard licence conditions this will provide greater operating
       freedom for radio amateurs. The changes we plan to make are to:

       1) Allow Intermediate and Full, Full (Club) or Full (Temporary Reciprocal) Licence
           holders to deploy low power repeaters (under 5 Watts ERP) without the need
           for an NoV; and

       2) Allow holders of a Full, Full (Club) or Full (Temporary Reciprocal) Licence to
           deploy repeaters at powers above 5 Watts ERP. For these higher power
           repeaters, licensees will also need to obtain a specific call sign from the RSGB,
           or other body stipulated by Ofcom.

       However, we plan to change some aspects of the proposal slightly:

       1) The licence provision will include a 25 Watts ERP upper power limit;

       2) We have amended the definition to ensure that everything currently permitted
           under the NoV remains in scope;

       3) We have included a provision that states that repeaters can only operate on
           frequencies above 28 MHz; and

       4) We have included a provision stating that repeaters must transmit in
           accordance with any restrictions as notified by Ofcom.

       Licensees will need to demonstrate how they have addressed the risk of
       interference to other radio users. Licensees always remain responsible for the
       operation and compliance of the repeater. They must ensure that the repeater can
       be shut down within two hours of Ofcom requiring the repeater to cease operation.
       Failure to provide such a mechanism will be a breach of the licence.

                                                       44
Q14. Liberalisation of Foundation Licences to allow
licensees to build their own equipment and access the
2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands

3.160  To support experimentation, we proposed to allow Foundation Licence holders to build their
       own equipment, removing the restriction in the Foundation Licence that only authorises
       them to use commercial equipment. Given the ability of Intermediate and Full licensees to
       use the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands, we also proposed to allow Foundation licensees use of
       these bands, subject to a maximum 1 Watt (0 dBw) PEP power restriction.

Responses

3.161 Overall, we received a positive response to this proposal. 73 percent of respondents
         signalled agreement, while 25.6 percent opposed. The remaining respondents did not clearly
         note agreement or disagreement.

Figure 16: Response to Q14 - our proposal for Foundation Licence holders to build their own
equipment

3.162  Most respondents saw this change as positive for the hobby. They highlighted that building
       equipment is beneficial for Foundation licensees, as it can encourage band occupancy and
       activity. It would also encourage Foundation Licence holders to experiment. Others noted
       that it could increase the appeal of the hobby to non-radio amateurs.

Issues raised

Some respondents considered that Foundation Licence holders should not be
granted permission to build their own equipment

3.163  Several respondents questioned whether it is appropriate to allow Foundation Licence
       holders to build their own equipment, stating that Foundation Licensees may not have the
       necessary qualifications or experience to do this, which could result in increased
       interference.

3.164  At the same time, this measure will help support experimentation and this proposal was
       supported by 73 percent of respondents. Given that all amateur radio licences apply a
       blanket requirement to not cause interference, we consider that this provides an adequate
       safeguard to other users.

               45
A concern was raised around the potential for increased interference in the 2.4
GHz and 5 GHz bands

3.165 A couple of responses expressed concern that our proposal to allow Foundation Licence
         holders access to the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz band would, in their view, be likely to cause
         interference, specifically to aircraft.

3.166  Notwithstanding this concern, we think it is unlikely that enabling access to these bands for
       Foundation licensees at lower power levels would cause interference to aircraft, noting that
       Intermediate and Full Licence holders have been able to access these bands for some time
       with significantly higher power than what was proposed for Foundation licensees.

3.167  Some respondents called for increased maximum permitted power for Foundation licensees
       in the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands. Several respondents, including the RSGB and RAYNET,
       commented that whilst 1 Watt PEP is suitable for terrestrial use, it would be insufficient for
       uplink to the QO-100 Geostationary satellite transponder. They stated that a power limit of
       between 2 to 5 Watts PEP should be sufficient to facilitate this operation.

3.168 Considering feedback from respondents, we propose to amend the maximum permitted
         power to allow users to transmit at 2 Watts PEP. We do not believe there would be a
         negative impact on other users, or increase in interference from doing so.

       Decision

       Given the majority support for these proposals, we plan to proceed largely as set
       out in the consultation. We plan to:

       1) Allow Foundation licensees to build their own equipment as we believe it is
           beneficial to the hobby and will encourage experimentation.

       2) Allow Foundation licensees to access the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands.

       We also propose to slightly increase the maximum permitted power level for
       Foundation licensees in the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands to enable 2 Watts PEP.

Q15. Allowing low power airborne use in some bands

3.169  We have received requests to permit amateur radio equipment to be used airborne and we

       therefore reviewed the restrictions on this. We proposed that, where a frequency band is
       defined as a `Primary' amateur band37, we could allow low power airborne use by amateur
       radio38. We proposed a power limit of 500mW EIRP.

37 See list of amateur bands in Schedule 1 of the Amateur Radio Licence in Annex 2.
38 We have published information about the licence-exempt use of radio equipment on our website.

                                                            46
Responses

3.170 92 percent of respondents stated that they agreed with our proposals around airborne use,
         whilst only 7.6 percent signalled opposition. The remaining respondents did not clearly note
         agreement or disagreement.

Figure 17: Response to Q15 - our proposal to allow low power airborne use in some bands

3.171  Respondents noted that low power airborne use is already successful in some other
       European countries, and our proposal would align with this39. Experimentation could benefit
       from greater freedom in this area, for example, by allowing Automatic Packet Reporting
       System (APRS) tracking from balloons over the UK.

Issues raised

Some respondents felt that the proposed power levels were too low

3.172  Whilst 500mW may be appropriate for unmanned aircraft, to limit interference, some
       respondents said higher power would be needed when a radio amateur is operating in a
       pilot-controlled aircraft. Some suggested a higher power level, of 5 Watts EIRP, would be
       more suitable.

3.173 At this time, we believe 500mW EIRP is a suitable power level for this operation, aligned
         with power limits for other Short Range Device communications. We have noted the
         feedback from some responses and may revisit these power levels at a future date.

There were concerns around the potential for interference to aeronautical radio
equipment

3.174 A few responses noted that low power airborne use could result in some interference to
         aeronautical radio equipment. For this risk to be reduced, some recommended that only
         Intermediate and Full Licence holders should be allowed to operate in these conditions.

3.175  Any amateur radio deployment on an aircraft is only permitted in the licence subject to the
       agreement of the pilot, or the person in chair of the aircraft, as set out in the licence.
       Operation in an aircraft needs to take into account the Civil Aviation Authority's (CAA) air
       safety rules. Taking account of the proposed requirements in our licence, and the CAA rules,
       we believe these are an adequate safeguard against any such interference risks to aircraft.

39 Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Switzerland, and Ukraine.
                                                            47
3.176  Concerns were raised around the potential for radio amateurs to undertake unauthorised
       airborne activity. A minority of respondents flagged that introducing permitted airborne use,
       albeit with specific band and power restrictions, could result in some radio amateurs utilising
       secondary allocations for this type of operation, despite this not being authorised. The 2m
       (144 ­ 148 MHz) and 70cm (440 MHz) bands were specifically highlighted in relation to this
       concern.

3.177  Our proposal clearly states that low power airborne use by amateur radio will only be
       available for Primary allocations. Should radio amateurs use Secondary allocation bands for
       this service, they would be in breach of their licence, which could result in the revocation of
       their licence, a fine, or imprisonment40.

       Decision

       Given the overwhelming support for this proposal, we have decided to proceed
       with the changes as proposed. We plan to allow low power airborne use at a power
       limit of 500mW EIRP41 in Primary amateur radio bands.

Licence format, Terms and Conditions (Q16 & 17)

3.178  We undertook a fundamental review of all the terms and conditions in the existing Amateur
       Radio Licence. We concluded that the terms and conditions could be simplified and
       contained some unnecessary provisions, supplementary notes, and definitions. We
       therefore proposed several changes to the licence to allow radio amateurs greater operating
       freedoms, whilst maintaining appropriate regulatory control over the use of the spectrum.
       At the same time, we wanted to make our rules as clear and streamlined as possible,
       aligning with other spectrum areas that we authorise, where appropriate, to improve
       consistency and responsiveness.

3.179 In the 2023 Consultation we outlined the following proposals:

       · Align the format and conditions of the licence with other spectrum licences that
            Ofcom issues;

       · Update the licence template to simplify and ensure consistency with CEPT
            Recommendation T/R 61-0142;

40Licensing Policy Manual, Section 11.
41 We note that in the case of airborne uses, the power limit is expressed as EIRP, rather than ERP as used in
other limits.
42 As a signatory to CEPT Recommendation T/R 61-01, our Amateur Radio licence document must contain
certain provisions. This makes it possible for radio amateurs from countries who have signed up to it to
operate during short visits to other signature countries without needing to obtain an individual temporary
licence from the visited country. For the UK, this applies to the holders of a Full Licence. For the purposes of
this consultation, we have only included a version of the Proposed Amateur Radio Licence in English.

                                                            48
           · Create a new Amateur Conditions Booklet, that also provided information on how
                 the proposals set out in the 2023 Consultation could be implemented into the
                 licence43; and

           · Make some other changes that would simplify or clarify the existing licence terms
                 and conditions.

3.180 We provided a copy of the proposed Amateur Radio Licence in Annex 2 of the 2023
         Consultation.

Responses

3.181  For question 16 on proposed changes in licence format and the alignment of standard terms
       and conditions, 90.9 percent of the 1,276 responses supported our proposals to update the
       format of the licence and the licence conditions and 8.6 percent disagreed. The remaining
       respondents did not clearly note agreement or disagreement.

3.182 81.8 percent of the 1,269 respondents agreed with our proposals outlined in question 17
         regarding proposed changes to the licence terms and conditions, while 17.7 percent raised
         concerns and 0.5 percent did not clearly note agreement or disagreement.

Figure 18: Responses to Q16 - our proposed changes in licence format and alignment of standard
terms and conditions

Figure 19: Responses to Q17 - our proposed changes to licence terms and conditions

43 This means that the Amateur Conditions Booklet would be set out as follows: Condition 1: Licence Term,
Variation and Revocation; Condition 2: Changes; Condition 3: Licence Fee; Condition 4: Geographical
Boundaries; Condition 5: Coordination (new); Condition 6: Radio Equipment Use; Condition 7: Access and
Inspection; Condition 8: Modification, Restriction and Closedown; Condition 9: Electromagnetic Fields (EMF)
Compliance; and Condition 10: Interpretation

                                                            49
Issues raised

General comments

3.183 There was overall support for the proposed updates to the terms and conditions of the
         licence. A number of respondents agreed that an update was necessary and that the
         proposed Amateur Radio Licence was clearer and simpler to understand.

3.184  Some respondents commented that a blanket yes or no response to this question was
       difficult, and others used these two questions to reaffirm comments they had made in
       previous questions. Several respondents stated that due to their responses on earlier
       proposals they could not agree with the proposed format of the licence or the draft terms
       and conditions, for example the proposals regarding changes to RSLs and repeaters. In many
       cases, they advised that if their concerns were addressed, they could support the proposals.

3.185  We note and welcome the overall support for the proposed changes. Where comments
       were raised relating to other questions in the 2023 Consultation, we have addressed these
       in the paragraphs above, under the specific question they related to. In addition to the
       changes noted below, we have also reviewed the text in the licence to correct any errors and
       made some minor administrative amendments to make the text clearer. All of these have
       been marked up in the copy of the draft Amateur Radio Licence set out in Annex 2 of this
       document.

Introduction of a new data station mode of operation

3.186  In their response the RSGB proposed a new licence condition to allow the authorisation of a
       wide variety of other data systems, mainly machine-to-machine operations, currently
       authorised via an NoV to the licence. They requested that a new category of operation be
       added to the licence to cover data stations that can be used by other radio amateurs
       without supervision. The ETCC currently coordinates a range of these uses. They explained
       that the proposed data station provision would permit the following types of operation
       under the licence; APRS, UIView/Packet, data/trunk links, RF mesh networks. The RSGB
       proposed some text for the licence based on the proposals for other forms of operation we
       set out in the licence.

3.187  Having reviewed the request by the RSGB we believe that there is merit in including these
       other forms of operation under the licence. The proposed provisions further liberalise the
       licence and remove the need for additional NoVs. As stated by respondents, there is
       increasing interest in these areas of operation and greater use of machine-to-machine
       communications, and we wish to ensure that the licence not only meets the needs of
       current radio amateurs but for the future. This proposal is in line with the aims of this review
       and therefore, we plan to include a new data station operation condition in the licence.

Licence main page

3.188  A number of amateurs requested that Ofcom keep the `first issued' field in the licence. They
       argued that this provides important historical information, and many licensees are proud of
       their time in the hobby and how experienced they are. Some respondents commented that
       the removal of the mailing address from the cover of the licence poses a risk that the
       address is not correctly recorded in Ofcom's database.

3.189 Based on the responses we have received we acknowledge that the first issue date of the
         licence is something that licensees wish to retain. We have considered this in line with the

                   50
       other licences that Ofcom issues and will retain this field in the licence template. Concerning
       the mailing address, this will be used by Ofcom to send correspondence to and will continue
       to be stored in the spectrum licensing database. Our proposal was only to remove this from
       the cover of the licence.

Licence term and variation

3.190 A small number of responses raised concerns over Ofcom's use of notices published on its
         website for proposed licence variations. They advised that this risks individuals not being
         made aware that a variation would be taking place.

3.191  Regarding the use of notices on Ofcom's website to propose to vary a licence, this provision
       was already contained in section 2 clause 4(3) of the existing Amateur Radio Licence. As
       explained in paragraph 7.22 of the 2023 Consultation, in 2021 when we last varied licences
       to include the EMF clause, we notified everyone individually but advised that going forward
       we would be making greater use of web notices. We would encourage all licensees to
       subscribe to email spectrum updates to stay up to date with our proposals, decisions, and
       any future changes.

Geographical boundaries

3.192  A number of respondents commented on the proposals to redefine how the geographical
       boundaries of the licence are expressed. Some welcomed the clarity concerning whether the
       licence permitted the use of their radio equipment offshore. Other respondents stated that
       the references to Maritime Mobile (`/MM') should be retained and mandated where a
       station is being operated from a vessel in international waters as this is important to note
       operating conditions.

3.193  Some respondents stated Ofcom should use the international waters definition instead of
       high seas. However, other responses advised that the condition which referenced use in
       "high seas" may be inappropriate as Ofcom are not the regulatory body for those areas
       outside UK territorial waters.

3.194 One respondent questioned whether the definition would need to include the airspace
         above the UK if airborne use were permitted.

3.195  As we set out in paragraph 4.32 of the 2023 Consultation, we do not believe there is a role
       for the spectrum regulator in managing the use of suffixes. Therefore, we do not agree with
       the continued inclusion of a reference to `/MM' and the rules associated with using it within
       the licence, though radio amateurs can continue to use this suffix should they wish to do so.

3.196  We have removed from the draft licence text relating to Full licensees being able to operate
       on the High Seas. We have done so as Ofcom's jurisdiction does not extend to these areas
       and therefore, we cannot enforce licence terms and conditions. However, we do
       acknowledge that under international rules Full licensees may continue to operate on the
       high seas.

3.197 We have further amended the proposed text relating to the geographical extent of the
         licence to also cover airborne use. The proposed new text will cover the use of radio
         equipment in and over the UK, Crown Dependencies and associated territorial waters.

                         51
Coordination

3.198  The RSGB were content with the introduction of a new provision that enabled Ofcom to
       issue licensees with a notice of coordination, but they stated it required guidance. They
       noted that the example of the Ofcom document "Frequency sharing arrangements between
       civil and military services" contains some of the coordination requirements amateurs must
       operate under but there are more. Others objected to only being "notified" about
       coordination requirements as this suggests no consultation would take place prior to any
       changes being implemented.

3.199  We note the comments from the RSGB and as we set out in paragraph 3.155, we intend to
       use this new provision to notify users of the coordination requirements for unattended
       beacons and repeaters. We believe it would be beneficial to licensees to make all this
       information easier to access in a single place. This change also makes implementing any
       future changes, following consultation where appropriate, more efficient as we would not
       have to vary the terms of all 100,000 licences. Annex 3 contains a copy of the Amateur Radio
       Coordination Notice that we will publish alongside the licence terms and conditions. We will
       also consider further whether there are elements set out in the Annexes of Public Sector
       Spectrum Release: Amateur use of 2310 to 2450 and 3400 to 3475 MHz, published in 2014,
       that could be helpful to incorporate into, or provide supplementary guidance to, the
       Coordination Notice.

Who may operate the radio - responders

3.200  We received a number of responses concerning the drafting of the proposed condition
       6.4(k), relating to the use of the radio equipment to assist with communications in times of
       disaster or national or international emergency. This issue was raised by the RSGB, RAYNET,
       and those involved in RAYNET activities.

3.201  The responses stated that the new definition of `responder' excluded voluntary
       organisations such as St. John's Ambulance and Local Councils that previously were included
       under the previous definition of `user service'. The proposed definition of `responder' only
       applied to a category 1 or 2 responder as listed in schedule 1 of the Civil Contingencies Act
       2004. RAYNET and other regional RAYNET groups advised that the change in definition
       would adversely affect the way amateur radio emergency communications is currently
       delivered. They stated that the proposed provision 6(7) should be replaced with the current
       clause 1(2) wording.

3.202  RAYNET in their response advised that out of 628 event reports from RAYNET groups for the
       period between 1st August 2022 to 31st July 2023, 78 percent of these events related to
       voluntary agencies and 22 percent for category 1 or 2 responders. They also went on to
       advise that there is no reference to supporting the responders, either operationally or
       during a training exercise, in such emergencies as is currently referred in clauses 1(2) and
       1(3) of the current licence conditions. They stated that the current clause 1(2) in the licence
       allows operations in local emergencies or for exercising to prepare for such emergencies and
       said that cooperative training exercises need to be permitted, using the protocols developed
       for emergency communication, involving non-amateurs. This helps maintain their skills for
       this type of operation.

              52
3.203 We acknowledge the error made regarding the definition of `responder', and we will revert
         to the current `user service' definition, as set out under clause 17(1)(q) of the existing
         Amateur Radio Licence.

3.204 Regarding the ability to support local emergencies, or training for them, we acknowledge the
         comments received. We will ensure that local emergencies and training operations, to
         support emergencies, continue to be covered under a new amended condition 6.5.

Making transmissions ­ encoding

3.205  Some respondents advised that the proposed text that prevents encoding "for the purpose
       of obscuring their meaning" could unintentionally prevent security procedures being put in
       place to ensure only amateurs can use the equipment. Some respondents advised that the
       current restriction on its use should be expanded beyond the remote control of satellites.
       They suggested that Ofcom should enable wider use of encryption and that this should be
       done via an NoV to the licence. Others were concerned that some common commercial
       patented compression systems would be forbidden under the licence terms.

3.206  One respondent commented that the encoding provision appears to conflict with provision
       6.9(d) that requires any links used for the remote control of the Radio Equipment to be
       adequately secure to ensure that no other person is able to control the Radio Equipment.
       They suggested that remote control links should be allowed to be encrypted.

3.207  The definition of encoding set out in the Proposed Amateur Radio Licence was taken from
       the ITU Radio Regulations for amateur radio. Our consultation did not contain any proposals
       to further extend this, and non-amateur band links can already be encrypted. In view of
       respondent concerns about the risks of confusion we plan to change the reference from
       "encoded" back to "encrypted" to ensure that the provision is clear in the licence.

3.208 We would like to make clear that we do not class modes of operation or codecs as a form of
         encryption, even if they are only available on a commercial basis. This is because they are
         not designed to make the message unreadable to other radio amateurs.

Making transmissions ­ broadcast

3.209  Most responses, that indicated an objection, raised concerns over our proposal to delete
       clause 11(4)(c) in the existing Amateur Radio Licence that related to the sending of general
       reception messages from mailbox or bulletin board. A number of respondents objected to
       our reasoning that this related to out-of-date technologies with many pointing to renewed
       interest in packet radio. They argued that this means having the ability to broadcast for
       these purposes is still necessary. We were also asked if it was possible to future proof these
       provisions so that they are able to accommodate future modes and operating practices
       should they arise.

3.210  Others advised that the licence permits the deployment of beacons but the text in draft
       provisions 16 and 17 of the Proposed Amateur Radio licence would not enable this. They
       asked for clarity between the operation of a radio beacon under provision 11 and making
       transmissions under provisions 16 and 17.

3.211  We note the comments received and will ensure that the licence enables the continued use
       of these technologies. We also take on board the comments regarding the use of beacons.
       We therefore plan to introduce text similar to the existing clause 11(4)(c) that permits the
       sending of messages for general reception. The new provision would allow beacons and data

                                  53
       stations to send one-way messages. This provision would cover existing bulletin board and
       mailbox forms of operation but also beacons and any other one-way data mode of
       operation.

Some raised concerns around the inclusion of all RSLs in the licence document

3.212 A number of respondents advised that Wales was not included in the list of RSLs contained
         in the table. Some respondents requested that the table also include RSLs for Shetland and
         Cornwall.

3.213  We would like to reassure licensees that the RSL for Wales was missed in error, and this has
       now been corrected. Concerning the inclusion of additional RSLs, our position remains that
       we were not proposing any new permanent RSLs at this time, beyond expanding the
       optional use of `E' in England to Foundation and Full licensees.

EMF compliance

3.214 Some licensees objected to the continued inclusion of EMF provisions in the licence. The
         RSGB raised concerns regarding the language featured in the proposed condition 9, in
         particular the use of `shall' when referring to ICNIRP guidelines which are not mandatory.

3.215  We did not propose any amendments to the provisions relating to EMF from the policy set
       out in our Implementation of measures to require compliance with international guidelines
       for limiting exposure to EMF document, published in 2021. Therefore, we are not proposing
       any changes in this area.

Interpretation

3.216  We received a number of comments regarding the some of the definitions in this section of
       the licence. Some of these comments related to the definition of Responders, Repeaters and
       Gateways and we have addressed these in paragraphs 3.144 and 3.152 as part of our
       response to questions 12 and 13.

3.217 Some respondents commented that the proposed definition of an Aircraft, although taken
         from the ITU Chicago Convention, was too complex and should be simplified. Another
         respondent noted that the term airborne was also not defined in the licence.

3.218 We have removed the definition of aircraft as there is currently no UK legal definition and
         instead will just use the term aircraft. In line with other licences and regulations made by
         Ofcom we also do not propose to include a specific definition of airborne in the licence.

Schedule 1 bands and powers

3.219  A number of respondents identified an error in Table C that listed a frequency band as
       185 - 2000 kHz and noted it should have been 1850 ­ 2000 kHz. Another respondent
       requested that Ofcom should make it clearer where no airborne use is permitted in a band.
       Finally, it was raised that a definition of PEP is not included in the licence schedule.

3.220 We have corrected the error in Table C so that the band is correctly referenced as 1850 kHz.
         We will also make clear in Schedule 1 of the licence whether airborne use is permitted or not
         in each band. Licensees will need to adhere to coordination processes already in place.

Additional frequencies

3.221  Some respondents, including the Radio Society of Great Britain (RSGB), requested access to
       additional frequencies for use by amateur radio. The 5 GHz band (5650 ­ 5850 MHz) was
       highlighted as particularly restrictive to UK amateurs, as they are only able to access 70 MHz

                                                         54
       of this band, compared to other European countries where the full frequency range is
       authorised.

3.222  Also raised by some amateurs was the inclusion of the 70.5 ­ 71.5 MHz (`70 MHz'), 40 MHz,
       and 146 MHz frequency bands into the standard licence, for use by the hobby. Regarding 40
       MHz, some respondents advised that the Republic of Ireland have allowed access to this
       band and suggested the UK should also allow it.

3.223  As set out in the 2023 Consultation, we are not adding or removing any frequency bands to
       the licence as part of this review. The amateur radio licence already authorises access to
       many different bands, and radio amateurs have access to an increasing number of bands as
       they progress from Foundation, to Intermediate, to Full Licence.

3.224 Access to the 70 MHz and 146 MHz bands will remain available to Full and Full (Club)
         Licences via an NoV.

3.225 We will continue to permit access to the 40 MHz band via an Innovation and Trial licence but
         this is not an Amateur Radio Licence.

3.226 Access to the gaps in the 5 GHz band is already authorised under the Wireless Telegraphy
         (Exemption) Regulations 2021 that references Ofcom Interface Requirement IR2030.

          Decision
          Given the overwhelming support for the proposed changes to the licence format
          and terms and conditions we plan to:
          1) Align the format and conditions of the licence with other spectrum licences that

               Ofcom issues;
          2) Update the licence template to simplify and ensure consistency with CEPT

               Recommendation T/R 61-01;
          3) Create a new Amateur Conditions Booklet, to implement the changes set out in

               this document; and
          4) Simplify or clarify the existing licence terms and conditions.
          Taking into account the responses received to these and other questions, we plan
          to make a number of changes to the licence conditions we proposed as part of the
          2023 Consultation. These proposed changes are set out in the draft licence that we
          have included in Annex 2 of this document.

Other cross cutting issues

3.227 There were some general themes throughout the responses, related to many of the
         questions, and some comments received that sat outside the scope of the questions asked.
         As these comments transcend specific proposals, we have dealt with these below.

       55
Licence progression

3.228  Many respondents argued that some of our proposals could remove the incentives for
       Foundation and Intermediate licensees to progress through the licensing tiers. These
       comments were raised in relation to our proposals to increase the transmit power for radio
       amateurs at all levels, to allow greater supervised use of radio equipment by others, remote
       control operation, and our proposals on beacons, gateways, and repeaters. Some
       respondents suggested setting a limit on how long a radio amateur can hold a Foundation
       Licence before having to progress.

3.229  Several respondents were resistant to increasing the general operating freedoms for
       Foundation licensees. Comments focused on questioning whether Foundation licensees
       have the technical know-how to operate under more liberalised conditions, and that some
       proposals could be seen as `deskilling' the hobby.

3.230  The scope of Ofcom's licensing regime is to issue three classes of individual amateur radio
       licences ­ Foundation, Intermediate, and Full. These levels are progressive, and a given class
       of licence is only issued to an applicant who has demonstrated the appropriate level of
       technical skill through the recognised examination. There is a clear route available for radio
       amateurs who wish to progress, however it is not the purpose of Ofcom's licensing regime to
       enforce progression.

3.231  By liberalising many of our restrictions, we believe this could help encourage
       experimentation in the use of radio and may help develop the skills of new and existing
       radio engineers, whilst also making the hobby more accessible to a wide range of people. It
       is important to understand that all licensees must operate within the terms and conditions
       of their licence, failing which Ofcom retains the right to take enforcement action such as
       revoking their licence, imposing a fine or pursuing criminal prosecution.

Awareness of the consultation

3.232  A small number of respondents noted that they weren't aware of the 2023 Consultation
       publication. They noted that given the importance of the changes set out in the
       consultation, Ofcom should have made greater effort in communicating with licensees about
       the proposed changes.

3.233  While we understand that some radio amateurs may not have been aware of the
       consultation when it was first published on the Ofcom website, we followed this with a
       variety of further communications. These included a notification sent to those that subscribe
       to the Ofcom mailing list and numerous posts on the various Ofcom social media platforms
       during the consultation period. The RSGB also played a role in making their stakeholders
       aware of the consultation via their website, social media channels, clubs, GB2RS and their
       RadCom magazine. In the September edition of RadCom, Ofcom provided an article outlining
       the consultation proposals. We are also aware that the proposals were discussed on other
       amateur radio forums, social media channels and on the air.

                               56
4. Impact of our Decisions

Overview and impact assessment of our changes to
the amateur radio licence and wider policies

4.1 In line with our statutory duties and our responsibility to ensure the optimal use of the radio
         spectrum, we proposed to make changes to the amateur radio licence and some of our
         associated policies.

4.2 Given that all the proposals in our June 2023 Consultation received majority support, we
         have decided to proceed with our proposals as planned subject to a few amendments and
         the outcome of the statutory process to vary all amateur radio licences. The proposed
         amendments are detailed below:

·  We proposed to allow old call signs to be reissued online, and to enable all licensees

   to change their call signs periodically. Initially we proposed a period of two years

   before a call sign can be reissued or changed. We have made the decision to

   increase this period to five years.

·  As part of our proposal to increase the permitted transmit power for all licensees,

   we proposed that Foundation licensees would be able to transmit at 20 Watts. Upon

   considering feedback, we are now proposing to increase the permitted transmit

   power for Foundation licensees to 25 Watts PEP.

·  We proposed to enable Foundation Licence holders to use the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz

   bands at a maximum transmit power of 1 Watt PEP; we have increased the proposed

   maximum transmit power to 2 Watts PEP in response to feedback.

·  There are a few areas, as explained in section 3, paragraphs 3.188 ­ 3.226 where we

   have updated or amended wording in the licence terms and conditions. This is in

   response to suggestions and comments made by respondents, or where there were

   errors.

·  We have introduced a new category of operation in the draft licence to cover data

   stations that can be used by other radio amateurs without supervision. The provision

   further liberalises the licence and removes the need for additional NoVs.

·  We have reconsidered the text in Schedule 244 and have decided to remove the text

   from the licence schedule. We will instead include these provisions in a new Notice

   of Coordination, which includes the text relating to the coordination of unattended

   beacons. The new Notice of Coordination will also set out the process for

   coordination of repeaters with the CAA and MOD.

4.3 We consider our proposals and decisions to be:

44 Schedule 2 currently sets out additional restrictions which apply to the unattended operation of beacons.
                                                            57
          a) objectively justified in that they are designed to strike the right balance between
              maintaining appropriate regulatory control over spectrum use and licensing to support
              the optimal use of the spectrum, including managing the interference environment and
              ensuring a clearer, more consistent and responsive regime for radio amateurs which
              minimizes administrative burdens and supports innovation;

          b) not unduly discriminatory against particular persons or against a particular description
              of persons in that they apply to all existing, and potential new, amateur radio licensees;

          c) proportionate to what they are intended to achieve, in that our licence conditions aim
              to ensure that amateur radio users would not be likely to cause undue interference to
              others, continue to comply with international agreements and reduce the administrative
              burden. In most areas licensees would be able to continue to operate in a similar way to
              now, as we are not restricting current operating parameters; and

          d) transparent in relation to what they are intended to achieve, in that they are clearly
              described and explained in this statement.

Impact assessment

4.4 Impact assessments provide a valuable way of assessing different options for regulation.
         They form part of best practice policy making. The 2023 Consultation and this document as a
         whole represents an impact assessment as defined in section 7 of the Communications Act
         2003.45

4.5 As initially set out in the 2023 Consultation document, we believed that our proposals are
         unlikely to have a significant impact on licensees in accordance with section 7 of the
         Communications Act 2003. These proposed policies will liberalise the amateur radio licence
         to allow greater operating freedom, provide clarity and remove unnecessary administrative
         burdens on licensees. As such we expected our proposals to have an overall positive impact.

4.6 In preparing the consultation and statement documents and reviewing responses, we have
         further considered if there are any wider citizen and consumer interests as well those
         involved in amateur radio. As amateur radio is a non-commercial hobby, we do not believe
         that the proposed new terms have any significant impact on businesses or the general
         public. Nor do we believe that they will disproportionately impact people on low incomes or
         those living in different areas of the UK (including in rural or urban areas) in accordance with
         section 3(4)(i) and 3(4)(l) of the Communications Act 20034647.

4.7 We also carefully considered the impact of the proposed new licence framework on other
         users of the radio spectrum and do not believe there are likely to be any negative impacts
         from our policies on other authorised spectrum users.

4.8 The policies look to relax a number of restrictions previously imposed on licensees. We
         believe that these changes will provide benefits to the amateur radio community and to
         Ofcom through reduced administration requirements. Although we note in some cases our
         changes to the spectrum authorisation rules for amateurs are a move away from existing

45 For further information about our approach to impact assessments, see Ofcom's `Impact Assessment
Guidance' on our website.
46 Section 3(1)(a) of the Communications Act 2003.
47 Section 3(4)(I) of the Communications Act 2003.

                                                            58
         practice, we consider that they will deliver benefits and we have sought to enable licensees
         to continue to operate in the way to which they are accustomed. For example, licensees are
         able to continue to use an RSL as part of their call sign if they wish to do so.

4.9 Whilst we plan to change the structure and some of the wording in licence, we consider
         many of these changes to be presentational and administrative in nature. They are mainly
         intended to (1) update and align the structure and content in the amateur radio licence with
         those of other licence types that Ofcom issues; and (2) update and remove some of the
         unnecessary complexity to make it easier to understand. Overall, these changes are
         intended to simplify the format of the licensing documentation for licensees.

4.10 We do not expect any of the new terms and conditions to require licensees to take any
         additional steps to ensure compliance. If licensees comply with all the previous terms and
         conditions of their licence, then we believe that they should have no undue difficulty in
         complying with all the proposed new terms and conditions of their licence.

Equality Impact Assessment

4.11 Section 149 of the Equality Act 2010 (the "2010 Act") imposes a duty on Ofcom, when
         carrying out its functions, to have due regard to the need to eliminate discrimination,
         harassment, victimisation, and other prohibited conduct related to the following protected
         characteristics: age, disability, gender, gender reassignment, pregnancy and maternity, race,
         religion or belief, and sexual orientation. The 2010 Act also requires Ofcom to have due
         regard to the need to advance equality of opportunity and foster good relations between
         persons who share specified protected characteristics and persons who do not.

4.12 Section 75 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 (the "1998 Act") also imposes a duty on Ofcom,
         when carrying out its functions relating to Northern Ireland, to have due regard to the need
         to promote equality of opportunity and have regard to the desirability of promoting good
         relations across a range of categories outlined in the 1998 Act.

4.13 To help us comply with our duties under the 2010 Act and the 1998 Act, we assess the
         impact of our proposals on persons sharing protected characteristics and in particular
         whether they may discriminate against such persons or impact on equality of opportunity or
         good relations.

4.14 We have given careful consideration to whether our proposed changes would have a
         particular impact on persons sharing protected characteristics (broadly including race, age,
         disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, pregnancy and maternity, marriage
         and civil partnership and religion or belief in the UK and also dependents and political
         opinion in Northern Ireland), and in particular whether they may discriminate against such
         persons.

4.15 When thinking about equality we think more broadly than persons that share protected
         characteristics identified in equalities legislation and think about potential impacts on
         various groups of persons (see paragraph 4.7 of our impact assessment guidance)

4.16 In particular, section 3(4) of the Communications Act also requires us to have regard to the
         needs and interests of specific groups of persons when performing our duties, as appear to
         us to be relevant in the circumstances. These include:

          a) the vulnerability of children and of others whose circumstances appear to us to put
              them in need of special protection;

                                                            59
          b) the needs of persons with disabilities, older persons and persons on low incomes; and
          c) the different interests of persons in the different parts of the UK, of the different ethnic

              communities within the UK and of persons living in rural and in urban areas.
4.17 We do not consider that our proposals will affect any specific groups of persons (including

         persons that share protected characteristics under the 2010 Act or the 1998 Act) differently
         to the general population.
4.18 The amateur radio licence review aims to produce a simpler and less restricted licence which
         will be easier to understand than the existing licence and would apply equally to all users.
         For these reasons, we do not consider that our policies will have negative impacts on any
         groups sharing protected characteristics48. We note that some changes involve the use of
         online systems to carry out such tasks, however, as with previous practice, alternative
         accessibility arrangements will be in place to enable all stakeholders to benefit from these
         policies.
Welsh language impact assessment
4.19 Ofcom is required to take Welsh language considerations into account when formulating,
         reviewing, or revising policies which are relevant to Wales (including proposals which are not
         targeted at Wales specifically but are of interest across the UK)49.
4.20 We do not consider our proposed changes and decisions have any impact on opportunities
         for persons to use the Welsh language or treat the Welsh language no less favourably than
         the English language. We also do not think there are ways in which our decisions and
         proposals could be formulated to have, or increase, a positive impact, or, not have adverse
         effects or decrease any adverse effects. This is because our planned changes and decisions
         relate to a nationwide licensing regime and the relevant licence products are available to
         anyone within the UK.
4.21 We note that Ofcom's current practice is to offer to produce spectrum licences in Welsh,
         and when requested does provide licences in Welsh, in accordance with its obligations set by
         the Welsh Language Commissioner50. Ofcom will continue to take this approach in the future
         in relation to amateur radio licences.

48 Wireless Telegraphy (Content of Transmission) Regulations 1988 will continue to apply to the content of
suffixes.
49 See Standards 84 ­ 89 of Hysbysiad cydymffurfio (in Welsh) and compliance notice (in English). Section 7 of
the Welsh Language Commissioner's Good Practice Advice Document provides further advice and information
on how bodies must comply with the Welsh Language Standards.
50 Compliance Notice ­ Section 44 Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011, The Office of Communications, 25
July 2016, paragraph 38.

                                                            60
5.Next steps

Our phased approach to implementation

5.1 The decisions set out in this document will not result in any immediate changes to the terms
         and conditions of amateur radio licences. Many of the decisions set out are subject to the
         outcome of the statutory processes for vary existing licences.

5.2 To implement many of these decisions we first need to make changes to all existing amateur
         radio licences. We have therefore decided to start the statutory process to vary all amateur
         radio licence by publishing a General Notice which sets out the proposed licence variations.

5.3 Implementing the changes set out in this statement will fall into three main phases owing to
         the complexity and required system changes:

          a) Phase 1: changes implemented through a variation process to the amateur radio licence;
          b) Phase 2: changes that require minor modification to the existing licensing platform or

              other specific action from Ofcom; and
          c) Phase 3: changes that require the new licensing platform to be in place51.

5.4 We have indicated which phase each of our planned changes would fall under in Figure 20.
         These plans may be subject to change, and we will provide further updates on the
         implementation timelines as required.

Figure 20: Implementation phasing of the policies

Phase 1 (Licence variation          Phase 2 (Licensing platform          Phase 3 (new licensing platform
required) ­ by end of February      modification or other Ofcom          required) ­ we plan for this to be
2024                                action required) - we plan for this  later in the 2024/25 financial
                                    to be in 2024                        year

Allow third party supervised        New Intermediate M8 and M9 call Improvements to the online
operation.
                                    sign prefix.                         revalidation process.

RSL use optional and allow wider    Restriction on the number of call    Holding of a single personal
use of `E' for England.             signs.                               licence and revocation of lower
Special RSL notification.                                                licence as a licensee progresses.
Call sign suffix provisions.        Liberalisation of the use of the
Increased transmit power.           Special Event Station NoV.           Choice of wider range of unused
                                                                         amateur call signs via the online
                                                                         portal.

Foundation and Intermediate use                                          Ability to change call sign
of the internet for remote control                                       periodically.
links.

51 There is an ongoing piece of work to move to a new licensing platform to provide a better online process for
our stakeholders and to enable us to continue to deliver an efficient spectrum licensing service into the future.
As part of the Plan of work 2023/24, we are migrating across some of our simpler licences onto our new
platform.

                                                            61
 Incorporating beacon, gateway,
 data and repeater NoVs into the
 licence.
 Allowing Foundation licensees to
 build their own equipment, and
 access 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands.
 Permit low power airborne use.
 Update and alignment of the
 licence terms and conditions.

Phase one of implementation: licence variation and revocation processes
5.5 As noted at the outset, many of the decisions set out in this document are subject to the

         outcome of the statutory process to vary all amateur radio licences, as set out in the WT
         Act52. We have today published our proposals to vary all amateur radio licences. Further
         detail around the variation can be found in the General Notice published on our website.

5.6 To vary or revoke a licence, we must first let affected licensees know that we are proposing
         to do this and explain the reasons why. We can do this either by individually contacting
         affected licensees or by publishing the licence variation proposal on our website. Where we
         publish a proposal on our website, it is called a General Notice.

5.7 As part of this process, we must also:

          a) allow licensees the opportunity to respond or provide comments on our proposal if they
              wish to do so; and

          b) specify a period (generally of at least 30 days) during which licensees can provide any
              comments they may wish to make.

5.8 As we advised in paragraph 7.22 of the 2023 Consultation, we intend to use the General
         Notice approach to notify licensees of the variation and do not intend to notify individual
         licensees. Once the deadline for providing a representation has passed, Ofcom will consider
         all the representations that have been provided. We will take our final decision within one
         month of the deadline for providing a representation, letting affected licensees know what
         we have decided and explaining the reasons for our decision. We can do this by publishing
         our final decision on our website (which is again called a General Notice). If we do proceed
         with the licence variation, we will subsequently begin the process of sending licensees their
         new licence document via their preferred communication method. It would therefore be
         beneficial for individuals to ensure this information is correct.

5.9 The changes would come into effect from when we publish our decision. At the same time,
         we would replace the Amateur TLC with the Amateur Conditions Booklet. We would then
         begin contacting licensees to provide them with their new licence document. Due to the
         volume of licences this process may take some weeks to complete.

52 Paragraphs 6 and 7, Schedule 1 of the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006.
                                                            62
5.10 We would advise that those wishing to be made aware of the publication and progress of
         the General Notice sign up for Ofcom spectrum updates. We also plan to publicise this on
         Ofcom's social media platforms as well as with stakeholder representative bodies such as
         the RSGB.

Other implementation changes we will make

5.11 As we have decided, subject to the outcome of the statutory process to vary all amateur
         radio licences to proceed with the proposals set out in the July 2023 Consultation, we will
         need to make a number of other changes beyond amending amateur radio licences. These
         are set out in more detail below.

5.12 As part of the wider licensing transformation and LPE implementation work being carried
         out we may also consult on further proposals for change in due course, if we think this will
         enable further benefits.

Document updates
5.13 As part of the policy implementation process, we plan to update a range of information that

         Ofcom publishes. This includes guidance notes, frequently asked questions, NoVs, and other
         policies relating to amateur radio available on the Ofcom website.
Amateur examination and syllabus
5.14 We are liaising with RSGB's Examinations Standards Committee and Exams and Syllabus
         Review Group to discuss any changes required to the exam syllabus and question bank
         relating to licence conditions53.
Statutory Instrument for visiting amateurs
5.15 We will update the Wireless Telegraphy (Reciprocal Exemption of European Radio Amateurs)
         Regulations 1988. These allow the holder of an amateur radio licence, issued by a country
         that has implemented CEPT Recommendation T/R 61--01, to use their radio equipment in
         the UK for up to three months without the need to hold a licence issued from Ofcom.

5.16 They have not been updated since they were made in 1988 and retain superfluous text and
         obsolete references, for example to the old terms and conditions booklet BR68 which was
         replaced a number of years ago. They also authorise the use of radio equipment only as
         provided for in CEPT Recommendation T/R 61-01. This does not include use of equipment
         by radio amateurs from countries with which the UK has bilateral reciprocal agreements.

5.17 Before making any such regulations (including regulations which modify or revoke existing
         regulations), we are required by section 122(4) of the WT Act to give statutory notice of our
         proposal to do so. Under section 122(5), such notice must state that we propose to make
         the regulations in question, set out their general effects, specify an address from which a
         copy of the proposed regulations or order may be obtained, and specify a time period of at
         least one month during which any representations with respect to the proposal must be
         made to us.

53 Ofcom oversees the examination system through the Exam Standards Committee.
                                                            63
A1. Legal Framework

The legislative framework

A1.1 Ofcom's statutory powers and duties in relation to spectrum management are set out
         primarily in the Communications Act 2003 (the "2003 Act") and the Wireless Telegraphy Act
         2006 (the "WT Act").

A1.2 Amongst our functions are the making available of frequencies for use for particular
         purposes and the granting of rights of use of spectrum through wireless telegraphy licences
         and licence exemptions.

A1.3 Our principal duties under the 2003 Act, when carrying out our functions and exercising our
         powers, are to further the interests of citizens and consumers, where appropriate by
         promoting competition. In doing so, we are also required (among other things) to secure the
         optimal use of spectrum and the availability throughout the United Kingdom of a wide range
         of electronic communications services.

A1.4 We must also have regard to:
          a) the desirability of promoting competition in relevant markets;
          b) the desirability of encouraging investment and innovation in relevant markets;
          c) the different needs and interests, so far as the use of the electro-magnetic spectrum for
              wireless telegraphy is concerned, of all persons who may wish to make use of it; and
          d) the different interests of persons in the different parts of the United Kingdom, of the
              different ethnic communities within the United Kingdom and of persons living in rural
              and in urban areas.

A1.5 In performing our duties, we are required under section 3(3) of the 2003 Act to have regard
         in all cases to the principles under which regulatory activities should be transparent,
         accountable, proportionate, consistent and targeted only at cases in which action is needed,
         and any other principles appearing to Ofcom to represent the best regulatory practice.

A1.6 Additionally, in carrying out our spectrum functions we have a duty under section 3 of the
         WT Act to have regard in particular to:
          a) the extent to which the spectrum is available for use, or further use, for wireless
              telegraphy;
          b) the demand for use of that spectrum for wireless telegraphy; and
          c) the demand that is likely to arise in future for such use.

A1.7 We also have a duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting:
          a) the efficient management and use of the spectrum for wireless telegraphy;
          b) the economic and other benefits that may arise from the use of wireless telegraphy;
          c) the development of innovative services; and
          d) competition in the provision of electronic communications services.

                                                            64
Ofcom's licensing framework

A1.8 Ofcom is responsible for authorising use of the radio spectrum. We permit the use of the
         radio spectrum either by granting wireless telegraphy licences under the WT Act or by
         making regulations exempting the use of particular equipment from the requirement to hold
         such a licence. It is unlawful and an offence to install or use wireless telegraphy apparatus
         without holding a licence granted by Ofcom, unless the use of such equipment is
         exempted.54

A1.9 The proposals and decisions set out in this document concern (among other things) our
         approach to existing amateur radio licensees and the licence conditions to be included in
         any future licence. Below we explain the legal framework under which we can impose
         conditions in new spectrum licences and revoke or vary existing licences.

Licence conditions

A1.10 A wireless telegraphy licence may be granted subject to such terms, provisions and
         limitations as Ofcom think fit (WT Act, s. 9(1)). However, this power is subject to certain
         constraints. In particular:

          a) the terms, provisions and limitations of a spectrum licence must not duplicate the
              obligations already imposed on the licensee by the general conditions set by Ofcom
              under section 45 of the Communications Act 2003 (WT Act, s. 9(6));55 and

          b) Ofcom may only impose terms, provisions and limitations which are: a) objectively
              justified in relation to the network and services to which they relate; b) not unduly
              discriminatory; c) proportionate to what they are intended to achieve; and d)
              transparent in relation to what they are intended to achieve (WT Act, s. 9(7)).

A1.11 Section 9(4) of the WT Act sets out a non-exhaustive list of the terms, provisions and
         limitations that Ofcom may impose.

A1.12 Examples of conditions that we may impose in spectrum licences under s.9 WT Act include:

          a) limitations as to the position and nature of a station (s.9(2)(a));
          b) limitations as to the apparatus that may be installed or used (s.9(3)); and
          c) terms, provisions and limitations as to strength or type of signal, as to times of use and

              as to the sharing of frequencies (s.9(4)(a)).

Ofcom's powers to vary or revoke licences granted under the
WT Act

A1.13  Ofcom has a broad discretion under paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 of the 2006 Act to vary or
       revoke licences, subject to certain limitations. Specifically, the legislation provides that
       Ofcom may not vary or revoke a licence unless the proposed variation or revocation is
       objectively justifiable (WT Act 2006, para. 6A of Sch. 1). We also have a general duty not to
       discriminate unduly between operators and to ensure that our interventions are

54 Section 8 of the WT Act.
55 See Ofcom's General Conditions of Entitlement.

                                                            65
       proportionate, consistent and targeted only at cases in which action is needed (2003 Act,
       s.3(3)). Ofcom must act in accordance with its statutory duties and general legal principles,
       including the duties to act reasonably and rationally when making decisions and to take
       account of any legitimate expectations.56

A1.14 Schedule 1 of the WT Act set out the process which Ofcom must follow where it proposes to
         vary or revoke a wireless telegraphy licence. In summary, Ofcom is required to take the
         following steps (WT Act, para. 7 of Sch. 1):

       a) notify the licensee of the reasons for the proposed variation or revocation;
       b) specify a period of at least 30 days in which the licensee may make representations

           about the proposal; and
       c) decide whether or not to vary or revoke the licence within one month of the end of that

           period.

A1.15 Where a proposal to vary or revoke a wireless telegraphy licence is made with the consent
         of the licensee, Ofcom is not required to follow the above process.

A1.16  Ofcom may include in a wireless telegraphy licence terms restricting the exercise of its
       power to revoke or vary licences (WT Act, para. 8 of Sch. 1), such as requiring a certain
       notice period for revoking a licence for spectrum management reasons. However, Ofcom
       may at any time revoke or vary a licence if it appears to be necessary or expedient in the
       interests of national security, or for the purpose of securing compliance with an
       international obligation (WT Act, para. 8(5) of Sch. 1).

56 Further potential limitations may derive from (i) any UK obligations under international agreements,
particularly where use of spectrum has been harmonised, and (ii) any ministerial direction under section 5 of
the 2003 Act or section 5 of the WT Act.

                                                            66
A2. Draft licence

A2.1 The following text contains the proposed changes to the amateur radio licence and its terms
         and conditions, following the decisions set out in this statement.

A2.2 Due to the reformatting of the structure of the licence documentation, it has not been
         possible to provide a full tracked change version of the proposed licence and its terms and
         conditions compared to the previous licence.

A2.3 We have however illustrated in the document the changes to the wording we proposed:
          a) New text based on existing standard terms and conditions set out in other Ofcom
              Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006 licences ­ this is highlighted green and underlined.
          b) New text to implement the proposed policy changes or amend existing text ­ this is
              highlighted yellow and in bold.
          c) Changes we have made to the licence conditions as a result of comments received to the
              2023 Consultation or minor administrative amendments ­ this text is highlighted
              turquoise and in italic bold red.

A2.4 Where the text is not highlighted, this indicates that the provisions were already in the
         existing licence and its terms and conditions.

A2.5 The existing amateur radio licence terms and conditions are available on our website.

                                                            67
Amateur Radio Licence

  Amateur Radio
  Licence

   Licence de radio amateur
   Amateurfunklizenz

   United Kingdom of Great Britain & Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands & the Isle of Man
   Royaume­Uni de Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord, les Îles Anglo-Normandes et L'Île de
   Man
   Vereinigte Königreich von Großbritannien und Nordirland, die Kanalinseln und die Isle of Man

   Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006
   Législation sur la télégraphie sans fil
   2006
   Gesetz über drahtlose Telegrafie
   2006

   Licence details
   Renseignements sur la licence
   Lizenzdetails

   Licence class
    Classe de licence
   Lizenzklasse
   CEPT equivalent licence class
   Classe de licence CEPT équivalente
   Entsprechende CEPT-Klasse
   Licensee's name*
   Nom du titulaire
   Name des Lizenzinhabers
   Club name
   Nom du club
   Name des Klubs
   Callsign
   Indicatif d'appel
   Rufzeichen
   Mailing address
   Adresse postale
   Postanschrift
   Main Station Address
   Adresse de station principale
   Hauptstationsanschrift

   Issue date of this
   version
    Date de délivrance
   Ausstellungsdatum

                                                            68
First issue date
Première date de délivrance
Erstausstellungsdatum
Licence number
Numéro de licence
Lizenznummer

    1. This Licence is issued by the Office of Communications ("Ofcom") and replaces any
         previous authority granted in respect of the service subject to this Licence by Ofcom or
         by the Secretary of State.

    2. This Licence authorises the licence holder named above ("the Licensee") to establish,
         install and/or use radio transmitting and/or radio apparatus as described in the
         schedule(s) (together called "the Radio Equipment") subject to the terms set out below
         and subject to the terms of the Amateur Radio Wireless Telegraphy Licence Conditions
         Booklet OFW611.

    3. If this Licence is a Full Licence, the Licensee is authorised to operate in countries which
         have implemented CEPT Recommendation T/R 61-01. If the Licensee is operating under
         the provisions of CEPT Recommendation T/R 61-01, the Licence must be available for
         inspection by the authorities in that country.

    1. Cette licence est délivrée par l'Office of Communications ("Ofcom") et remplace toute
         autorisation antérieure accordée concernant le service soumis à cette licence par
         l'Ofcom ou par le Secrétaire d'État.

    2. Cette licence autorise autorise le titulaire de licence nommé ci-dessus ("le titulaire") à
         établir, installer et/ou utiliser des appareils radio et/ou de transmission radio comme
         décrit dans l'annexe ou les annexes (ensemble appelés « l'équipement radio ») à cette
         licence, sous réserve des conditions énoncées ci-dessous et soumises aux conditions du
         Livret des conditions de licence de radioamateur et de télégraphie sans fil OFW611.

    3. Si cette licence est une licence complète, le titulaire est autorisé à opérer dans les pays
         qui ont mis en oeuvre la recommandation T/R 61-01 de la CEPT. Si le titulaire de licence
         opère conformément aux dispositions de la Recommandation CEPT T/R 61-01, la licence
         doit être disponible pour inspection par les autorités de ce pays.

    1. Diese Lizenz wird vom Office of Communications ("Ofcom") ausgestellt und ersetzt alle
         früheren Genehmigungen, die Ofcom oder der Außenminister in Bezug auf den Dienst,
         der dieser Lizenz unterliegt, erteilt haben.

    2. Diese Lizenz ermächtigt den oben genannten Lizenzinhaber ("der Lizenznehmer"),
         Funkübertragungs- und/oder Funkgeräte wie in den Anhängen beschrieben (ingesamt
         ,,die Funkausrüstung" genannt) einzurichten, zu installieren und/oder zu verwenden,
         vorausgesetzt dass die unten aufgeführten Bedingungen und die Bedingungen des
         Amateur Radio Wireless Telegraphy Licence Conditions Booklet OFW611. eingehalten
         werden.

    3. Wenn es sich bei dieser Lizenz um eine Volllizenz handelt, ist der Lizenznehmer
         berechtigt, in Ländern zu operieren, die die CEPT-Empfehlung T/R 61-01 umgesetzt
         haben. Wenn der Lizenznehmer gemäß den Bestimmungen der CEPT-Empfehlung T/R
         61-01 tätig ist, muss die Lizenz den Behörden in diesem Land zur Einsichtnahme zur
         Verfügung stehen.

                                                         69
Proposed Amateur Radio General

Licence Conditions Booklet

A2.6 Due to the reformatting of the structure of the licence documentation, it has not been
         possible to provide a full tracked change version of the licence and its terms and conditions.

A2.7 We have however illustrated in the document any changes to the wording:

          a) New text based on existing standard terms and conditions set out in other Ofcom
              Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006 licences ­ this is highlighted green and underlined.

          b) New text to implement the proposed policy changes or amend existing text as set out in
              the 2023 Consultation ­ this is highlighted yellow and in bold.

          c) Changes made to the drafting following publication of the 2023 Consultation ­ this is
              highlighted in turquoise, red and bold text.

A2.8 Where the text is not highlighted, this indicates that the provisions were already in the
         existing licence and its terms and conditions.

A2.9 The existing amateur radio licence terms and conditions are available on our website.

Condition 1 - Licence Term, Variation and Revocation

        1. The Licence shall continue in force until revoked by Ofcom or surrendered by the
             Licensee or until the Licensee is granted an Amateur Radio Licence at a higher class.

        2. Pursuant to schedule 1 paragraph 8 of the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006 ("the Act")
             Ofcom may not revoke this Licence under schedule 1 paragraph 6 except:
                a) at the request of, or with the consent of, the Licensee;

                b) if there has been a breach of any of the conditions of the Licence;

                c) in accordance with schedule 1 paragraph 8(5) of the Act;

                d) if it appears to Ofcom to be necessary or expedient to revoke the Licence for the
                     purposes of complying with a direction by the Secretary of State given to Ofcom
                     under section 5 of the Act or section 5 of the Communications Act 2003; or

                e) for reasons related to the management of the radio spectrum, provided that in
                     such cases the power to revoke may only be exercised after first giving:

                                 I. reasonable notice to the Licensee; or
                                II. in the case of 2310-2350 MHz, 2390-2400 MHz and 3400-3410 MHz

                                       three (3) months' notice to the Licensee.

                f) Where the licensee holds more than one personal Amateur Radio licence of any
                     class (or class) issued by Ofcom;

                g) where the Licensee has not, in the course of the past five years, updated the
                     contact details held by Ofcom or confirmed, that these details are correct;

                h) If the Licence is a Full (Club) Licence and the Licensee no longer represents the club
                     named above; or
                                                            70
                i) Where the Licensee has been convicted of an offence under the Wireless
                     Telegraphy Act.

        3. Where Ofcom exercise their power to revoke or vary the Licence in accordance with
             schedule 1 paragraph 6 of the Act, the Licensee shall be notified in writing or by a
             general notice. Any general notices will be posted on the Ofcom website.57

Condition 2 - Changes

        1. The Licence may not be transferred.
        2. The Licensee must give immediate notice to Ofcom in writing of any change to the

             Licensee's name and address from that recorded on the Licence.

Condition 3 - Licence Fee

        1. The Licensee shall pay to Ofcom the relevant sums as provided in section 12 of the Act
             and the regulations made thereunder:
                a) on or before the date of issue of the Licence; and
                b) on or before the payment date shown on the Licence for subsequent payments or
                     such other date or dates as shall be notified in writing to the Licensee, in
                     accordance with those regulations and any relevant terms, provisions and
                     limitations of the Licence.

Condition 4 - Geographical Boundaries

        1. The Licensee is authorised to establish, install and use the Radio Equipment in and over
             the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man in each case including their
             territorial sea.

        2. If the Licence is a Full Licence, then the Licensee may also operate the Radio Equipment
             on the High Seas.

Condition 5 - Coordination

        1. The Licensee shall ensure that the Radio Equipment is operated in compliance with such
             coordination procedures as may be notified to the Licensee by Ofcom.

Condition 6 - Radio Equipment Use

        1. The Licensee must ensure that the Radio Equipment is constructed, established, installed
             and used only in accordance with the provisions specified in the Licence.

        2. The Licensee shall ensure that the Radio Equipment is designed, constructed, maintained
             and used so that its use does not cause any Undue Interference to any wireless
             telegraphy.

57 https://www.ofcom.org.uk/
                                                            71
        3. The Licensee shall ensure that the establishment, installation, modification or use of the
             Radio Equipment is carried out in accordance with the restrictions set out in Condition 9
             of this Licence in relation to electromagnetic field (EMF) exposure.

Purpose

        4. The Licensee must ensure that the Radio Equipment is only used:
                a) for the purpose of self-training in radio communications, including conducting
                     technical investigations; or

                b) as a leisure activity and not for commercial purposes of any kind; or.

        5. The Licensee may use or permit the use of the Radio Equipment to assist with
             communications:
                a) in times of disaster or local, national, or international emergency;

                b) to support operations conducted by a user service; or

                c) during any exercise relating to a and b.

Persons who may operate the radio equipment

        6. The Radio Equipment may be used by the Licensee or by any person who has the
             permission of the licensee to do so and who is under the direct supervision of the
             Licensee.

        7. If the Licence is a Full (Club) Licence, the Radio Equipment may be used:
                a) unsupervised, by the holder of a Full Licence who has the permission of the
                     licensee to do so; or

                b) by any person who is under the direct supervision of the holder of a Full Licence
                     whom the Licensee has granted permission to do so.

        8. The Radio Equipment may be used by a Category 1 or 2 Responder (`[Responder/User
             Service during any operation or exercise conducted by a Responder.

        9. When the Radio Equipment is used by a person other than the Licensee, the Licensee:
                a) must ensure all users are made aware of and comply with the terms, conditions
                     and limitations of the Licence; and

                b) remains responsible for the operation of the Radio Equipment and compliance
                     with the terms, conditions and limitations of the Licence.

Remote control operation

        10. The Licensee must ensure that, when operating the Radio Equipment by Remote
             Control:
                a) any links used for the remote control of the Radio Equipment must be
                     adequately secure so as to ensure that no other person is able to control the
                     Radio Equipment;

                b) remote control links using Amateur Radio frequencies must use frequency bands
                     above 30 MHz;
                                                            72
                c) transmissions from the Radio Equipment can be terminated immediately
                     promptly; and

                d) the Licence Number (as specified above) must be displayed on or next to any
                     unattended Radio Equipment located other than at the main station address.

Unattended operation

        11. The Licensee must ensure that, when deploying Radio Equipment for Unattended
             Operation:
                a) any links used for the remote control of the Radio Equipment must be
                     adequately secure so as to ensure that no other person is able to control the
                     Radio Equipment;
                b) transmissions from the Radio Equipment can be terminated promptly; and
                c) the Licence Number  (as specified above) is displayed on or next to any
                     unattended Radio Equipment located other than at the main station address.

Radio beacon operation

        12. Radio Equipment may be operated as a Radio Beacon providing that the Licensee:
                a) only transmits on the frequency bands and at the locations set out in Schedule 2
                     of the Licence;
                b) transmits in accordance with any restrictions as notified by Ofcom;

                c) transmits at powers no greater than 5 Watts ERP;
                d) is able to demonstrate that reasonable steps have been taken to minimise the

                     risk of the Radio Beacon causing undue interference to other authorised uses of
                     radio and provide evidence of this, if requested to do so by Ofcom; and
                e) is able to close down the Radio Beacon Station within two hours of being
                     required to do so by Ofcom.
        13. Where this is a Full Licence, Full (Club) Licence or Full (Temporary Reciprocal) Licence,
             the Radio Equipment may be used as a Radio Beacon at powers greater than 5 Watts
             but no more than 25 Watts ERP providing that the Licensee ensures that the beacon is
             identified using the call sign allocated and published by the Radio Society of Great
             Britain or any other body stipulated by Ofcom.

Gateway operation

        14. The Radio Equipment may be used as a Gateway and may be operated (but not
             controlled) by other radio amateurs without supervision, providing that the Licensee:
                a) ensures that the Gateway transmits at powers no greater than 5 Watts ERP;
                b) is able to demonstrate that reasonable steps have been taken to minimise the
                     risk of the Gateway causing undue interference to other authorised uses of radio
                     and provide evidence of this if requested by Ofcom;

                                                            73
                c) takes all reasonable steps to ensure that the Gateway is only used by an
                     Amateur; and

                d) is able to close down the Gateway within two hours of being required to do so by
                     Ofcom;

                e) remains responsible for the operation of the Gateway and compliance with the
                     terms, conditions and limitations of the Licence; and

                f) anyone wishing to establish a link to a Repeater must have the written
                     permission of the Repeater keeper to do so.

Repeater operation

        15. Where this is an Intermediate, Full, Full (Club) or Full (Temporary Reciprocal) Licence,
             the Radio Equipment may be used as a Repeater and may be operated (but not
             controlled) by other radio amateurs without supervision, providing that the Licensee:
                a) transmits in accordance with any restrictions as notified by Ofcom;

                b) Ensures that the Repeater transmits at powers no greater than 5 Watts ERP;

                c) does not operate in a frequency band below 28 MHz;

                d) is able to demonstrate that reasonable steps have been taken to minimise the
                     risk of the Repeater causing undue interference to other authorised uses of radio
                     and provide evidence of this if requested by Ofcom;

                e) is able to close down the Repeater within two hours of being required to do so by
                     Ofcom;

                f) takes all reasonable steps to ensure that the Repeater is only used by an
                     Amateur; and

                g) remains responsible for the operation of the Repeater and compliance with the
                     terms, conditions and limitations of the Licence.

        16. Where this is a Full, Full (Club) or Full (Temporary Reciprocal) Licence, the Radio
             Equipment may be used as a Repeater Station at powers greater than 5 Watts but no
             more than 25 Watts ERP, providing that the Licensee:
                a) transmits in accordance with any restrictions as notified by Ofcom;

                b) does not operate in a frequency band below 28 MHz;

                c) ensures that the Repeater is identified using the call sign allocated and published
                     by the Radio Society of Great Britain or any other body stipulated by Ofcom for
                     that purpose;

                d) is able to demonstrate that reasonable steps have been taken to minimise the
                     risk of the Repeater causing undue interference to other authorised uses of radio
                     and provide evidence of this if requested by Ofcom;

                e) is able to close down the Repeater within two hours of being required to do so by
                     Ofcom;

                f) takes all reasonable steps to ensure that the Repeater is only used by an
                     Amateur; and
                                                            74
                g) remains responsible for the operation of the Repeater and compliance with the
                     terms, conditions and limitations of the Licence; and

Data station operation

        17. The Radio Equipment may be used as a Data Station and may be operated (but not
             controlled) by other radio amateurs without supervision, providing that the Licensee:
                a) transmits in accordance with any restrictions as notified by Ofcom;

                b) ensures that the Data Station transmits at powers no greater than 5 Watts ERP;

                c) is able to demonstrate that reasonable steps have been taken to minimise the
                     risk of the Data Station causing undue interference to other authorised uses of
                     radio and provide evidence of this if requested by Ofcom;

                d) is able to close down the Data Station within two hours of being required to do so
                     by Ofcom;

                e) takes all reasonable steps to ensure that the Data Station is only used by an
                     Amateur; and

                f) remains responsible for the operation of the Data Station and compliance with
                     the terms, conditions and limitations of the Licence; and

        18. Where this is an Intermediate, Full, Full (Club) or Full (Temporary Reciprocal) Licence,
             the Radio Equipment may be used as a Data Station at powers greater than 5 Watts
             but no more than 25 Watts ERP, providing that the Licensee:
                a) transmits in accordance with any restrictions as notified by Ofcom;

                b) ensures that the Data Station is identified using the call sign allocated and
                     published by the Radio Society of Great Britain or any other body stipulated by
                     Ofcom for that purpose;

                c) is able to demonstrate that reasonable steps have been taken to minimise the
                     risk of the Data Station causing undue interference to other authorised uses of
                     radio and provide evidence of this if requested by Ofcom.

                d) is able to close down the Data Station within two hours of being required to do so
                     by Ofcom;

                e) takes all reasonable steps to ensure that the Data Station is only used by an
                     Amateur; and

                f) remains responsible for the operation of the Data Station and compliance with
                     the terms, conditions and limitations of the Licence.

Making transmissions

        19. Unless the Radio Equipment is being used for the purposes of clause 5to support a
             Responder, the Licensee must ensure that:
                a) Transmissions are only addressed to one or more amateur radio station(s);

                b) Transmissions between amateur stations are not encoded encrypted for the
                     purpose of obscuring their meaning, except for control signals exchanged
                                                            75
             between earth command stations and space stations in the amateur-satellite
             service.

20. The Licensee may not make transmissions (either directly or for onward transmission by
    another station) for general reception other than:

        a) initial calls; or

        b) transmissions to groups or networks of three or more Amateurs as long as
             communication is first established separately with at least one Amateur in any
             such group.

        c) Messages transmitted by a Beacon or via a Data Station for reception by
             Amateurs.

Identification

21. The licensee that shall ensure that:

        a) the station is clearly identifiable at all times;

        b) the call sign is transmitted as frequently as is practicable during transmissions; and

        c) the Call sign is given in voice or other appropriate format consistent with the mode
             of operation.

22. Unless the Licence is an Intermediate Licence with a call sign beginning with a 2, a
    `Regional Secondary Locator' (`RSL') may be inserted into the transmitted call sign, as a
    new, additional, second character.

23. If the Licence is an Intermediate Licence with a call sign beginning with a 2, a RSL must
    be inserted into the transmitted call sign, as a new, additional, second character.

24. Where an RSL is used, it must be one of the following:

Region            All licences  Full (Club) Licence
                                        only

England           E             X

Guernsey          U             P

Isle of Man       D             T

Jersey            J             H

Northern Ireland  I             N

Scotland          M             S

Wales             W             C

25. The Licensee may, if notified by Ofcom, insert into the transmitted call sign any
    additional character, in place of an RSL, as specified by Ofcom.

26. Any suffix, following the `slash' symbol (`/') may be added to the transmitted call sign.

                                                    76
Condition 7 - Access and Inspection

        1. The Licensee shall permit any person authorised by Ofcom:
                a) to have access to the Radio Equipment; and

                b) to inspect the Licence and Radio Equipment, at any and all reasonable times or,
                     when in the opinion of that person an urgent situation exists, at any time to ensure
                     that the Radio Equipment is being used in accordance with the terms of the
                     Licence.

Condition 8 - Modification, Restriction and Closedown

        1. A person authorised by Ofcom may require the Radio Equipment, or any part thereof, to
             be modified or restricted in use, or temporarily or permanently closed down
             immediately if in the opinion of the person authorised by Ofcom:
                a) a breach of the Licence has occurred; and/or

                b) the use of the Radio Equipment is causing or contributing to Undue Interference to
                     the authorised use of other radio equipment.

        2. Ofcom may require the Radio Equipment to be modified or restricted in use, or
             temporarily closed down either immediately or on the expiry of such period as may be
             specified in the event of a national or local state of emergency being declared. Ofcom
             may only exercise this power after a written notice is served on the Licensee or a general
             notice applicable to holders of a named class of Licence is published.

        3. On a ship or aircraft, the Licensee may operate the Radio equipment only with the
             agreement of the captain or the person for the time being in control of the ship or
             aircraft.

        4. If required by a person authorised by Ofcom, the Licensee shall keep a permanent record
             (a "log") of such matters concerning the operation of the Radio Equipment, over such
             period, and in such form, as the authorised person may require.

Condition 9 ­ Electromagnetic Fields (EMF) Compliance

Sites which are not shared with another licensee

        1. The Licensee shall only establish, install, modify or use Relevant Radio Equipment if the
             total electromagnetic field exposure levels produced by the Licensee's On-Site Radio
             Equipment do not exceed the basic restrictions58 in the relevant tables for general public
             exposure identified in the ICNIRP Guidelines59 in any area where a member of the
             general public is or can be expected to be present when transmissions are taking place.

58 Compliance with the reference levels for general public exposure identified in the ICNIRP Guidelines will
ensure compliance with the basic restrictions.
59 The relevant tables for general public exposure are identified in Ofcom's "Guidance on EMF Compliance and
Enforcement".

                                                            77
Sites which are shared with another licensee

        2. In the case of a shared site where the Shared Site Exemption applies to the Licensee, the
             Licensee shall comply with paragraph 1 above.

        3. In the case of a shared site where the Shared Site Exemption does not apply to the
             Licensee, the Licensee shall only establish, install, modify or use the Relevant Radio
             Equipment if:
                a) the total electromagnetic field exposure levels produced by the Licensee's On-Site
                     Radio Equipment, together with

                b) the total electromagnetic field exposure levels produced by all other wireless
                     telegraphy stations and wireless telegraphy apparatus operated by another
                     licensee on the same site for which the Licensee can reasonably assume that a
                     Shared Site Exemption does not apply,

         do not exceed the basic restrictions60 in the relevant tables for general public exposure
         identified in the ICNIRP Guidelines61 in any area where a member of the general public is or
         can be expected to be present when transmissions are taking place.

Emergency situations

        4. The obligations in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above will not apply if the Relevant Radio
             Equipment is being used for the purpose of seeking emergency assistance or reporting
             and responding to an emergency situation (in the vicinity of that situation) including for
             search and rescue activities and maritime emergency communications.62

Relationship with authorised transmission levels

        5. The Licensee shall comply with paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above notwithstanding the
             maximum transmission levels authorised in the Licence.

Records

        6. The Licensee shall keep, or shall procure that a third party shall keep, and shall make
             available to Ofcom on request, records (including the type of records identified in
             Ofcom's "Guidance on EMF Compliance and Enforcement") that demonstrate how it has
             complied with paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above when Relevant Radio Equipment is
             established, installed, modified or used.

Ofcom's "Guidance on EMF Compliance and Enforcement"

        7. When evaluating its compliance with paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, the Licensee shall

60 Compliance with the reference levels for general public exposure identified in the ICNIRP Guidelines will
ensure compliance with the basic restrictions.
61 The relevant tables for general public exposure are identified in Ofcom's "Guidance on EMF Compliance and
Enforcement".
62 Further information on emergency situations is set out in Ofcom's "Guidance on EMF Compliance and
Enforcement".

                                                            78
             take into account Ofcom's "Guidance on EMF Compliance and Enforcement" that is in
             force at the relevant time.

Condition 10 ­ Interpretation

        1. In this Booklet and in the Licence:

                a) the establishment, installation and use of the Radio Equipment shall be
                     interpreted as establishment and use of stations and installation and use of
                     apparatus for wireless telegraphy as specified in section 8 of the Act.

                b) "Amateur" means a person duly authorised to operate an amateur radio station.

                c) "Aircraft" means any machine that can derive support in the atmosphere from
                     the reactions of the air other than the reactions of the air against the earth's
                     surface.

                c) "Call sign" means the unique group of alphanumeric characters, specified in this
                     licence or allocated by another body stipulated by Ofcom and used to identify the
                     Radio Equipment.

                d) "CEPT Recommendation T/R 61-01" means the European Conference of Postal and
                     Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT) recommendation on CEPT Radio
                     Amateur Licence.

                e) "Data Station" means radio equipment that transmits or receives data;

                f) "dBi" means the ratio in dB (decibel) when comparing the gain of the antenna to
                     the gain of an isotropic antenna. An isotropic antenna is a theoretical antenna
                     which radiates power uniformly in all directions.

                g) "EIRP" means equivalent isotropically radiated power which is the product of the
                     power supplied to an antenna and the absolute or isotropic antenna gain in a given
                     direction relative to an isotropic antenna.

                h) "ERP" means effective radiated power which is the product of the power supplied
                     to an antenna and its gain in a given direction relative to a half-wave dipole.

                i) "Foundation Licence" means a Licence issued to an Amateur who is the holder of a
                     Radio Amateurs' Examination Pass Certificate which confirms that the holder has
                     achieved the appropriate level of competence required by Ofcom to be issued with
                     a Foundation Licence.

                j) "Full Licence" means a Licence issued to an Amateur who is the holder of a Radio
                     Amateurs' Examination Pass Certificate which confirms that the holder has
                     achieved the appropriate level of competence required by Ofcom to be issued with
                     a Full Licence.

                k) "Full (Club) Licence" means a Licence issued to an Amateur who is the holder of a
                     separate Full Licence and who represents a Club.

                l) "Full (Temporary Reciprocal) Licence" means a licence issued to a person who
                     holds an amateur radio Licence issued by a foreign administration recognised by
                     Ofcom and which confirms that the holder has achieved the appropriate level of
                     competence required by Ofcom.
                                                            79
                m) "Gateway" means radio equipment that transmits and receives on a single
                     frequency for the purpose of connecting to other non-amateur networks.

                n) "General public" means any person who is not: (a) the Licensee, owner, operator
                     or installer of the Relevant Radio Equipment; or (b) acting under a contract of
                     employment or otherwise acting for purposes connected with their trade, business
                     or profession or the performance by them of a public function.63

                o) "High Seas" means all parts of the sea that are not included in the UK territorial
                     sea or in the internal waters of a State.

                o) "ICNIRP Guidelines" means the version of the Guidelines published by the
                     International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection for limiting
                     exposure to electromagnetic fields which are identified in Ofcom's "Guidance on
                     EMF Compliance and Enforcement" that is in force at the relevant time.64

                p) "Inspect" includes examine and test.

                q) "Intermediate Licence" means a licence issued to an Amateur who is the holder of
                     a Radio Amateurs' Examination Pass Certificate which confirms that the holder has
                     achieved the appropriate level of competence required by Ofcom to be issued with
                     an Intermediate Licence.

                r) "Licensee's On-Site Radio Equipment" means the Relevant Radio Equipment and
                     any other wireless telegraphy station(s) and wireless telegraphy apparatus on the
                     same site which transmits at powers higher than 10 Watts EIRP or 6.1 Watts ERP.65

63 There is pre-existing health and safety legislation which already requires employers to protect workers from
exposure to electromagnetic fields ("EMF") including the following legislation specifically relating to EMF (as
amended from time to time): The Control of Electromagnetic Fields at Work Regulations 2016, The Control of
Electromagnetic Fields at Work Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 and The Merchant Shipping and Fishing
Vessels (Health and Safety at Work) (Electromagnetic Fields) Regulations 2016.
64 Ofcom's "Guidance on EMF Compliance and Enforcement" will initially require the Licensee to comply with
the ICNIRP Guidelines for limiting exposure to time-varying electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields (up to
300 GHz), published in: Health Physics 74(4):494-522, dated April 1998 and available at:
https://www.icnirp.org/cms/upload/publications/ICNIRPemfgdl.pdf ("1998 Guidelines") or the ICNIRP
Guidelines for limiting exposure to electromagnetic fields (100 KHz to 300 GHz), published in: Health Physics
118(5): 483­524; 2020 and available at: https://www.icnirp.org/cms/upload/publications/ICNIRPrfgdl2020.pdf
[accessed: 6 November 2023]
("2020 Guidelines"). However, once work on the relevant standards explaining the methodology for assessing
compliance with the 2020 Guidelines has progressed sufficiently, Ofcom will publish a public consultation on
updating its "Guidance on EMF Compliance and Enforcement" to explain that going forward Ofcom will be
requiring the Licensee to comply with the 2020 Guidelines only. Following this public consultation, Ofcom will
publish an updated version of Ofcom's "Guidance on EMF Compliance and Enforcement" on its website.
Ofcom will follow the same process for any subsequent versions of the ICNIRP Guidelines.
65 10 Watts EIRP is equivalent to 6.1 Watts ERP. In linear units EIRP (W) = 1.64 x ERP (W); in decibels EIRP (dB) =
ERP (dB) + 2.15. Ofcom's "Guidance on EMF Compliance and Enforcement" explains how the Licensee can
determine if wireless telegraphy station(s) or wireless telegraphy apparatus "transmits at powers higher than
10 Watts EIRP or 6.1 Watts ERP".

                                                            80
                s) "Peak Envelope Power (PEP)" is the average power supplied to the antenna by a
                     transmitter during one radio frequency cycle at the crest of the modulation
                     envelope taken under normal operating conditions.

                t) "Radio Amateurs' Examination Pass Certificate" means an original certificate
                     issued by an examination body which is recognised by Ofcom, which confirms that
                     that person named on the certificate has achieved the level of competence
                     required to hold either a Full, Intermediate or Foundation Amateur Radio Licence
                     issued by Ofcom.

                u) "Radio Beacon" means automatic transmitting-only Radio Equipment which is
                     operated by the Licensee for the purposes of determining radio propagation
                     characteristics; position reporting; direction finding or other telemetry.

                v) "Radio Equipment" means the radio equipment specified in the Licence.

                w) "Regional Secondary Locator" means a letter, that is inserted after the initial
                     character of the call sign assigned under the Licence, to convey the location of
                     the Radio Equipment.

                x) "Remote Control Operation" means the Radio Equipment which transmits at a
                     different location from the Licensee but is at all times under their direct control
                     via a remote control link.

                y) "Repeater" means Radio Equipment that is capable of simultaneous reception
                     and re-transmission on different frequencies.

                z) "Responder" means a Category 1 or 2 Responder as listed in Schedule 1 of the
                     Civil Contingencies Act 2004,

                z) "Relevant Radio Equipment" means all the Radio Equipment that is authorised by
                     this Licence to transmit at powers higher than 10 Watts EIRP or 6.1 Watts ERP.

                aa) "Shared site" means a site that is shared by the Licensee and at least one other
                     licensee for the purposes of establishing, installing, modifying or using wireless
                     telegraphy stations or wireless telegraphy apparatus.

                bb) "Shared Site Exemption" means any of the following three situations apply on a
                     shared site in relation to the Licensee's or another licensee's wireless telegraphy
                     station(s) or wireless telegraphy apparatus that is authorised to transmit at powers
                     higher than 10 Watts EIRP or 6.1 Watts ERP:

                         The first situation is that all of the licensee's wireless telegraphy station(s) or
                             wireless telegraphy apparatus on a shared site do not transmit at a
                             combined total radiated power in any particular direction66 that is higher
                             than 100 Watts EIRP or 61 Watts ERP.67

66 For the purpose of this situation, the combined total radiated power is a simple sum of the radiated powers
(in EIRP or ERP) of all of the licensee's wireless telegraphy station(s) or wireless telegraphy apparatus on the
shared site that transmits signals covering the same or overlapping areas.
67 100 Watts EIRP is equivalent to 61 Watts ERP.

                                                            81
                         The second situation is that the total electromagnetic field exposure levels
                             produced by the licensee's wireless telegraphy station(s) or wireless
                             telegraphy apparatus in any area where a member of the general public is or
                             can be expected to be present when transmissions are taking place is no
                             more than 5% of the basic restrictions or 5% of the reference levels in the
                             relevant tables for general public exposure identified in the ICNIRP
                             Guidelines.68

                         The third situation is where the licensee's wireless telegraphy station or
                             wireless telegraphy apparatus has an antenna gain that is equal to or higher
                             than 29 dBi and has a fixed beam.

                cc) "Site" means a physical structure, building, vehicle or moving platform.
                dd) "Ship" has the same meaning as given in section 313 of the Merchant Shipping

                     Act 1995.
                ee) "the Act" means the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006.
                ff) "Unattended Operation" means the use of Radio Equipment by a person in a

                     different location from that of the Radio Equipment.
                gg) "Undue Interference" has the meaning given by Section 115 of the Act.
                hh) "User Service" means the British Red Cross, St John Ambulance, the St Andrew's

                     Ambulance Association, the Royal Voluntary Service, the Salvation Army, any
                     Government Department, any `Category 1' responder, and any Category 2
                     responder as defined in the Civil Contingencies Act 2004;
                ii) "Wireless telegraphy apparatus" has the meaning given to it in section 117 of the
                     Act.
                jj) "Wireless telegraphy station" has the meaning given to it in section 117 of the Act.
        2. Any schedule to the Licence shall form part of the Licence, together with any subsequent
             schedule which Ofcom may issue as a variation to the Licence.
        3. The Interpretation Act 1978 shall apply to the Licence as it applies to an Act of
             Parliament.

68 The relevant tables for general public exposure are identified in Ofcom's "Guidance on EMF Compliance and
Enforcement".

                                                            82
Schedule 1

The Licensee shall only operate the Radio Equipment using the frequency bands and power levels set
out in in the in the corresponding Table for their level of Licence.

Licence level      Table

Foundation         A

Intermediate       B

Full Licence, Full (Temporary Reciprocal) Licence or Full C
(Club) Licence

Notes to Schedule 1

                a) dBW is the power level in dB relative to one Watt.

                b) "EIRP" means equivalent isotropically radiated power which is the product of the
                     power supplied to an antenna and the absolute or isotropic antenna gain in a
                     given direction relative to an isotropic antenna.

                c) "ERP" means effective radiated power which is the product of the power supplied
                     to an antenna and its gain in a given direction relative to a half-wave dipole.

                d) ISM is an abbreviation for industrial, scientific and medical applications.

                e) Peak Envelope Power (PEP)" is the average power supplied to the antenna by a
                     transmitter during one radio frequency cycle at the crest of the modulation
                     envelope taken under normal operating conditions.

                f) Unless airborne power limits are stipulated for the frequency band, the use of
                     Radio Equipment is not permitted airborne.

               83
Table A: Foundation Licence Parameters

Frequency bands     Status of Amateur Service      Status of Amateur Satellite    Maximum Peak
                    allocation under this licence  Service allocation under this  Envelope Power
135.7 to 137.8 kHz                                 licence                        level in Watts (and
1810 to 1830 kHz    Secondary. Available on the                                   dB relative to 1
1830 to 1850 kHz                                   Not allocated                  Watt)
1850 to 2000 kHz
3500 to 3800 kHz                                                                  1W (0 dBW) ERP
7000 to 7100 kHz
7100 to 7200 kHz    basis of non-interference      Not allocated                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
10000 to 10150 kHz  to other services.                                            10W (10 dBW)
14000 to 14250 kHz
14250 to 14350 kHz  Primary. Available on the                                     500 mW EIRP
18068 to 18168 kHz  basis of non-interference to                                  airborne
21000 to 21450 kHz  other services outside the
                    UK or Crown Dependencies.                                     25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                                                                                  10W (10 dBW)
                    Primary                        Not allocated                  500 mW EIRP
                                                                                  airborne
                    Secondary. Available on the    Not allocated
                    basis of non-interference to   Not allocated                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                    other services.                                               10W (10 dBW)
                    Primary. Shared with
                                                                                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                    other Services.                                               10W (10 dBW)
                                                                                  500 mW EIRP
                    Primary                        Primary                        airborne
                                                                                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                    Primary                        Not allocated                  10W (10 dBW)
                                                                                  500 mW EIRP
                    Secondary                      Not allocated                  airborne
                    Primary                        Primary                        25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                                                                                  10W (10 dBW)
                    Primary                        Not allocated                  500 mW EIRP
                                                                                  airborne
                    Primary                        Primary                        25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                                                                                  10W (10 dBW)
                    Primary                        Primary                        25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                                                                                  10W (10 dBW)
                                                                                  500 mW EIRP
                                                                                  airborne
                                                                                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                                                                                  10W (10 dBW)
                                                                                  500 mW EIRP
                                                                                  airborne
                                                                                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                                                                                  10W (10 dBW)
                                                                                  500 mW EIRP
                                                                                  airborne
                                                                                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                                                                                  10W (10 dBW)

                                        84
Frequency bands     Status of Amateur Service      Status of Amateur Satellite    Maximum Peak
                    allocation under this licence  Service allocation under this  Envelope Power
24890 to 24990 kHz                                 licence                        level in Watts (and
                                                                                  dB relative to 1
28.0 to 29.7 MHz    Primary                        Primary                        Watt)
                                                                                  500 mW EIRP
50 to 51 MHz        Primary                        Primary                        airborne
                                                                                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
51 to 52 MHz        Primary. Available on the      Not allocated                  10W (10 dBW)
70.0 to 70.5 MHz    basis of non-interference to                                  500 mW EIRP
144 to 146 MHz      other services outside the UK                                 airborne
                    or Crown Dependencies.                                        25 20W (13.98 dBW )
430 to 431 MHz                                                                    10W (10 dBW)
431 to 432 MHz      Secondary. Available on the    Not allocated                  500 mW EIRP
                    basis of non-interference to   Not allocated                  airborne
432 to 435 MHz      other services.                Primary                        25 20W (13.98 dBW )
435 to 438 MHz                                                                    10W (10 dBW)
438 to 440 MHz      Secondary. Available on the                                   500 mW EIRP
2400 to 2450 MHz    basis of non-interference to                                  airborne
5650 to 5670 MHz    other services.                                               25 20W (13.98 dBW )
5670 to 5680 MHz                                                                  10W (10 dBW)
5755 to 5765 MHz    Primary
5820 to 5830 MHz                                                                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                    Secondary                      Not allocated                  10W (10 dBW)

                    Secondary. Not available for   Not allocated                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                    use within 100km radius of     Not allocated                  10W (10 dBW)
                    Charing Cross, London                                         500 mW EIRP
                    (51°30'30''N, 00°07'24''W).                                   airborne
                                                                                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                    Secondary                                                     10W (10 dBW)
                                                                                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                    Secondary                      Secondary                      10W (10 dBW)

                    Secondary                      Not allocated                  25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                                                                                  10W (10 dBW)
                    Secondary. Users must          Secondary. Users must          25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                    accept interference from       accept interference from       10W (10 dBW)
                    ISM users.                     ISM users.                     25 20W (13.98 dBW )
                    Secondary                      Secondary. Earth to space      10W (10 dBW)
                                                   only                           21W (30 dBW)
                    Secondary                      Not allocated
                    Secondary. Users must          Not allocated                  21W (30 dBW)
                    accept interference from
                    ISM users.                     Not allocated                  21W (30 dBW)
                    Secondary. Users must                                         21W (30 dBW)

                                         85                                       21W (30 dBW)
Frequency bands       Status of Amateur Service      Status of Amateur Satellite    Maximum Peak
                      allocation under this licence  Service allocation under this  Envelope Power
10.000 to 10.125 GHz                                 licence                        level in Watts (and
10.225 to 10.450 GHz  accept interference from                                      dB relative to 1
10.450 to 10.475 GHz  ISM users.                     Not allocated                  Watt)
10.475 to 10.500 GHz  Secondary                      Not allocated
                      Secondary                      Secondary                      1W (0 dBW)
                      Secondary                      Secondary                      1W (0 dBW)
                      Not allocated                                                 1W (0 dBW)
                                                                                    1W (0 dBW)

                      86
Table B: Intermediate Licence Parameters

Frequency Bands     Status of Amateur Service     Status of Amateur      Maximum Peak
                    allocation under this         Satellite Service      Envelope Power
                    licence                       allocation under this  level in Watts (and
                                                  licence                dB relative to 1
                                                                         Watt)
135.7 to 137.8 kHz  Secondary. Available on the   Not allocated
1810 to 1830 kHz    basis of non-interference to  Not allocated          1W (0 dBW) ERP
1830 to 1850 kHz    other services.               Not allocated
                                                                         100W (20 dBW) 50W
                    Primary. Available on the                            (17 dBW)
                    basis of non-interference to                         500 mW EIRP airborne
                    other services outside the
                    UK or Crown Dependencies.                            100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                         (17 dBW)
                    Primary                                              500 mW EIRP airborne
                                                                         32W (15 dBW)
1850 to 2000 kHz    Secondary. Available on the   Not allocated
3500 to 3800 kHz    basis of non-interference to  Not allocated          100W (20 dBW) 50W
7000 to 7100 kHz    other services.                                      (17 dBW)
                                                                         500 mW EIRP airborne
                    Primary. Shared with other                           100W (20 dBW) 50W
                    Services.                                            (17 dBW)
                                                                         500 mW EIRP airborne
                    Primary                       Primary                100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                         (17 dBW)
7100 to 7200 kHz    Primary                       Not allocated          500 mW EIRP airborne
                                                                         100W (20 dBW) 50W
10000 to 10150 kHz  Secondary                     Not allocated          (17 dBW)
14000 to 14250 kHz  Primary                       Primary                100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                         (17 dBW)
14250 to 14350 kHz  Primary                       Not allocated          500 mW EIRP airborne
                                                                         100W (20 dBW) 50W
18068 to 18168 kHz  Primary                       Primary                (17 dBW)
                                                                         500 mW EIRP airborne
21000 to 21450 kHz  Primary                       Primary                100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                         (17 dBW)
24890 to 24990 kHz  Primary                       Primary                500 mW EIRP airborne
                                                                         100W (20 dBW) 50W
28.0 to 29.7 MHz    Primary                       Primary                (17 dBW)
                                                                         500 mW EIRP airborne
                                                                         100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                         (17 dBW)
                                                                         500 mW EIRP airborne
                                                                         100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                         (17 dBW)
                                                                         500 mW EIRP airborne

                                          87
Frequency Bands   Status of Amateur Service     Status of Amateur          Maximum Peak
                  allocation under this         Satellite Service          Envelope Power
50 to 51 MHz      licence                       allocation under this      level in Watts (and
                                                licence                    dB relative to 1
51 to 52 MHz                                                               Watt)
70.0 to 70.5 MHz  Primary. Available on the     Not allocated
144 to 146 MHz    basis of non-interference to                             100W (20 dBW) 50W
430 to 431 MHz    other services outside the    Not allocated              (17 dBW)
431 to 432 MHz    UK or Crown Dependencies.     Not allocated
                                                Primary                    500 mW EIRP airborne
432 to 435 MHz    Secondary. Available on the
435 to 438 MHz    basis of non-interference to                             100W (20 dBW) 50W
438 to 440 MHz    other services.                                          (17 dBW)
1240 to 1260 MHz
1260 to 1270 MHz  Secondary. Available on the                              100W (20 dBW) 50W
1270 to 1325 MHz  basis of non-interference to                             (17 dBW)
2310 to 2350 MHz  other services.
2390 to 2400 MHz                                                           100W (20 dBW) 50W
2400 to 2450 MHz  Primary                                                  (17 dBW)
3400 to 3410 MHz                                                           500 mW EIRP airborne
5650 to 5670 MHz  Secondary                     Not allocated              40W (16 dBW) ERP
5670 to 5680 MHz                                Not allocated              40W (16 dBW) ERP
                  Secondary. Not available for
                  use within 100km radius of    Not allocated              100W (20 dBW) 50W
                  Charing Cross, London                                    (17 dBW)
                  (51°30'30''N, 00°07'24''W).                              100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                           (17 dBW)
                  Secondary                                                100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                           (17 dBW)
                  Secondary                     Secondary                  100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                           (17 dBW)
                  Secondary                     Not allocated              100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                           (17 dBW)
                  Secondary                     Not allocated              100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                           (17 dBW)
                  Secondary                     Secondary. Earth to space  100W (20 dBW) 50W
                  Secondary                     only                       (17 dBW)

                                                Not allocated              100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                           (17 dBW)
                  Secondary. Available on the   Not allocated
                  basis of non-interference to                             100W (20 dBW) 50W
                  other services.               Not allocated              (17 dBW)
                  Secondary. Available on the
                  basis of non-interference to  Secondary. Users must      100W (20 dBW) 50W
                  other services.               accept interference from   (17 dBW)
                  Secondary. Users must         ISM users.
                  accept interference from      Not allocated              100W (20 dBW) 50W
                  ISM users.                                               (17 dBW)
                  Secondary. Available on the   Secondary. Earth to space  100W (20 dBW) 50W
                  basis of non-interference to  only
                  other services.               Not allocated
                  Secondary

                  Secondary

                             88
Frequency Bands       Status of Amateur Service     Status of Amateur             Maximum Peak
                      allocation under this         Satellite Service             Envelope Power
5755 to 5765 MHz      licence                       allocation under this         level in Watts (and
5820 to 5830 MHz                                    licence                       dB relative to 1
5830 to 5850 MHz                                                                  Watt)
                      Secondary. Users must         Not allocated                 (17 dBW)
10.000 to 10.125 GHz  accept interference from                                    100W (20 dBW) 50W
10.225 to 10.450 GHz  ISM users.                    Not allocated                 (17 dBW)
10.450 to 10.475 GHz
10.475 to 10.500 GHz  Secondary. Users must         Secondary. Users must         100W (20 dBW) 50W
24.00 to 24.05 GHz    accept interference from      accept interference from      (17 dBW)
24.05 to 24.15 GHz    ISM users.                    ISM users. Space to Earth
                                                    only.                         100W (20 dBW) 50W
24.15 to 24.25 GHz    Secondary. Users must                                       (17 dBW)
47.0 to 47.2 GHz      accept interference from
75.500 to 75.875 GHz  ISM users.
75.875 to 76.000 GHz
76.0 to 77.5 GHz      Secondary                     Not allocated                 100W (20 dBW) 50W
77.5 to 78.0 GHz      Secondary                     Not allocated                 (17 dBW)
78 to 79 GHz          Secondary                     Secondary                     100W (20 dBW) 50W
79 to 81 GHz          Not allocated                 Secondary                     (17 dBW)
                      Primary. Users must accept    Primary. Users must accept    100W (20 dBW) 50W
                      interference from ISM users.  interference from ISM users.  (17 dBW)
                                                    Not allocated                 100W (20 dBW) 50W
                      Secondary. May only be                                      (17 dBW)
                      used with the written         Not allocated                 100W (20 dBW) 50W
                      consent of Ofcom. Users       Primary                       (17 dBW)
                      must accept interference                                    500 mW EIRP airborne
                      from ISM users.               Secondary                     100W (20 dBW) 50W
                      Secondary                     Primary                       (17 dBW)
                      Primary
                                                    Secondary                     100W (20 dBW) 50W
                      Secondary                     Primary                       (17 dBW)
                      Primary                                                     100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                                  (17 dBW)
                      Secondary                                                   500 mW EIRP airborne
                      Primary                                                     100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                                  (17 dBW)
                                                                                  100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                                  (17 dBW)
                                                                                  500 mW EIRP airborne
                                                                                  100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                                  (17 dBW)
                                                                                  100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                                  (17 dBW)
                                                                                  500 mW EIRP airborne

                      Secondary                     Secondary                     100W (20 dBW) 50W
                      Secondary                     Secondary                     (17 dBW)

                                                                                  100W (20 dBW) 50W

                                 89
Frequency Bands       Status of Amateur Service  Status of Amateur      Maximum Peak
                      allocation under this      Satellite Service      Envelope Power
122.25 to 123.00 GHz  licence                    allocation under this  level in Watts (and
134 to 136 GHz                                   licence                dB relative to 1
136 to 141 GHz                                                          Watt)
241 to 248 GHz        Secondary                  Not allocated          (17 dBW)
248 to 250 GHz        Primary                    Primary
                                                                        100W (20 dBW) 50W
                      Secondary                  Secondary              (17 dBW)
                      Secondary                  Secondary
                      Primary                    Primary                100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                        (17 dBW)
                                                                        500 mW EIRP airborne

                                                                        100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                        (17 dBW)

                                                                        100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                        (17 dBW)

                                                                        100W (20 dBW) 50W
                                                                        (17 dBW)
                                                                        500 mW EIRP airborne

                                 90
Table C: Full Licence Parameters

Frequency Bands       Status of Amateur Service     Status of Amateur      Maximum Peak
                      allocation under this         Satellite Service      Envelope Power
                      licence                       allocation under this  level in Watts
                                                    licence                (and dB relative
                                                                           to 1 Watt)
135.7 to 137.8 kHz    Secondary. Available on       Not allocated          1W (0 dBW) ERP
472 to 479 kHz        the basis of non-             Not allocated
                      interference to other                                5W (7 dBW) EIRP
                      services.
                                                                           1000W (30 dBW)
                      Secondary                                            400W (26 dBW)
                                                                           500 mW EIRP
1810 to 1830 kHz      Primary. Available on the     Not allocated          airborne
1830 to 1850 kHz      basis of non-interference to  Not allocated          1000W (30 dBW)
                      other services outside the                           400W (26 dBW)
                      UK or Crown Dependencies.                            500 mW EIRP
                                                                           airborne
                      Primary                                              32W (15 dBW)

1850 to 2000 kHz      Secondary. Available on the   Not allocated          1000W (30 dBW)
3500 to 3800 kHz      basis of non-interference to  Not allocated          400W (26 dBW)
                      other services.                                      500 mW EIRP
                                                                           airborne
                      Primary. Shared with other                           100 W (20dBW)
                      Services.
                                                                           1000W (30 dBW)
5258.5 to 5264 kHz    Secondary. Subject to         Not allocated          400W (26 dBW)
5276 to 5284 kHz      restrictions set out in note                         500 mW EIRP
5288.5 to 5292 kHz    (g).                                                 airborne
5298 to 5307 kHz                                                           1000W (30 dBW)
5313 to 5323 kHz      Available on the basis of                            400W (26 dBW)
5333 to 5338 kHz      non-interference to other                            500 mW EIRP
5354 to 5358 kHz      services inside the UK or                            airborne
5362 to 5374.5 kHz    Crown Dependencies.                                  400W (26 dBW)
5378 to 5382 kHz
5395 to 5401.5 kHz    Primary                       Primary
5403.5 to 5406.5 KHz

7000 to 7100 kHz

7100 to 7200 kHz      Primary                       Not allocated

10.10 to 10.15 MHz    Secondary                       Not allocated
                                               91
Frequency Bands     Status of Amateur Service     Status of Amateur      Maximum Peak
14.00 to 14.25 MHz  allocation under this         Satellite Service      Envelope Power
                    licence                       allocation under this  level in Watts
                                                  licence                (and dB relative
                                                                         to 1 Watt)
                    Primary                       Primary
                                                                         1000W (30 dBW)
14.25 to 14.35 MHz  Primary                       Not allocated          400W (26 dBW)
                                                                         500 mW EIRP
18.068 to 18.168 MHz Primary                      Primary                airborne
                                                                         1000W (30 dBW)
21.00 to 21.45 MHz  Primary                       Primary                400W (26 dBW)
                                                                         500 mW EIRP
24.89 to 24.99 MHz  Primary                       Primary                airborne
                                                                         1000W (30 dBW)
28.0 to 29.7 MHz    Primary                       Primary                400W (26 dBW)
                                                                         500 mW EIRP
50 to 51 MHz        Primary. Available on the     Not allocated          airborne
                    basis of non-interference to                         1000W (30 dBW)
51 to 52 MHz        other services outside the    Not allocated          400W (26 dBW)
70.0 to 70.5 MHz    UK or Crown Dependencies.     Not allocated          500 mW EIRP
144 to 146 MHz                                    Primary                airborne
                    Secondary. Available on the                          1000W (30 dBW)
                    basis of non-interference to                         400W (26 dBW)
                    other services.                                      500 mW EIRP
                                                                         airborne
                    Secondary. Available on the                          1000W (30 dBW)
                    basis of non-interference to                         400W (26 dBW)
                    other services.                                      500 mW EIRP
                                                                         airborne
                    Primary                                              1000W (30 dBW)
                                                                         400W (26 dBW)
430 to 431 MHz      Secondary                     Not allocated          500 mW EIRP
431 to 432 MHz                                                           airborne
                    Secondary. Not available for  Not allocated          100W (20 dBW)
432 to 435 MHz      use; within 100km radius of   Not allocated
                    Charing Cross, London                                160W (22 dBW)
                    (51°30'30''N,00°07'4''W).
                                                                         1000W (30 dBW)
                    Secondary                                            400W (26 dBW)
                                                                         500 mW EIRP
                                                                         airborne
                                                                         40W (16 dBW)
                                                                         ERP
                                                                         40W (16 dBW)
                                                                         ERP

                                                                         400W (26 dBW)

                               92
Frequency Bands       Status of Amateur Service       Status of Amateur             Maximum Peak
                      allocation under this           Satellite Service             Envelope Power
435 to 438 MHz        licence                         allocation under this         level in Watts
438 to 440 MHz                                        licence                       (and dB relative
1240 to 1260 MHz      Secondary                                                     to 1 Watt)
1260 to 1270 MHz      Secondary                       Secondary                     400W (26 dBW)
1270 to 1325 MHz      Secondary                       Not allocated                 400W (26 dBW)
2310 to 2350 MHz      Secondary                       Not allocated                 400W (26 dBW)
                                                      Secondary. Earth to space     400W (26 dBW)
2390 to 2400 MHz      Secondary                       only                          400W (26 dBW)
                      Secondary. Available on the     Not allocated                 400W (26 dBW)
2400 to 2450 MHz      basis of non-interference to    Not allocated
                      other services.                                               400W (26 dBW)
3400 to 3410 MHz      Secondary. Available on the     Not allocated
                      basis of non-interference to                                  400W (26 dBW)
5650 to 5670 MHz      other services.                 Secondary. Users must
5670 to 5680 MHz      Secondary. Users must           accept interference from      400W (26 dBW)
5755 to 5765 MHz      accept interference from        ISM users.
                      ISM users.                      Not allocated                 400W (26 dBW)
5820 to 5830 MHz      Secondary. Available on the                                   400W (26 dBW)
                      basis of non-interference to    Secondary. Earth to space     400W (26 dBW)
5830 to 5850 MHz      other services.                 only
                      Secondary                       Not allocated                 400W (26 dBW)
10.000 to 10.125 GHz                                  Not allocated
10.225 to 10.450 GHz  Secondary                                                     400W (26 dBW)
10.450 to 10.475 GHz  Secondary. Users must           Not allocated
10.475 to 10.500 GHz  accept interference from                                      400W (26 dBW)
24.00 to 24.05 GHz    ISM users.                      Secondary. Users must         400W (26 dBW)
                      Secondary. Users must           accept interference from      400W (26 dBW)
24.05 to 24.15 GHz    accept interference from        ISM users. Space to Earth     400W (26 dBW)
                      ISM users.                      only.                         1000W (30 dBW)
24.15 to 24.25 GHz    Secondary. Users must           Not allocated                 400W (26 dBW)
                      accept interference from        Not allocated                 500 mW EIRP
                      ISM users.                      Secondary                     airborne
                                                      Secondary                     400W (26 dBW)
                      Secondary                       Primary. Users must accept
                      Secondary                       interference from ISM users.  400W (26 dBW)
                      Secondary
                      Not allocated                   Not allocated
                      Primary. Users must accept
                      interference from ISM users.    Not allocated

                      Secondary. May only be
                      used with the written
                      consent of Ofcom. Users
                      must accept interference
                      from ISM users.
                      Secondary

                                                  93
Frequency Bands       Status of Amateur Service  Status of Amateur      Maximum Peak
47.0 to 47.2 GHz      allocation under this      Satellite Service      Envelope Power
                      licence                    allocation under this  level in Watts
                                                 licence                (and dB relative
                                                                        to 1 Watt)
                      Primary                    Primary
                                                                        1000W (30 dBW)
75.500 to 75.875 GHz  Secondary                  Secondary              400W (26 dBW)
75.875 to 76.000 GHz  Primary                    Primary                500 mW EIRP
                                                                        airborne
76.0 to 77.5 GHz      Secondary                  Secondary              400W (26 dBW)
77.5 to 78.0 GHz      Primary                    Primary
                                                                        1000W (30 dBW)
78 to 79 GHz          Secondary                  Secondary              400W (26 dBW)
79 to 81 GHz          Secondary                  Secondary              500 mW EIRP
122.25 to 123.00 GHz  Secondary                  Not allocated          airborne
134 to 136 GHz        Primary                    Primary                400W (26 dBW)

136 to 141 GHz        Secondary                  Secondary              1000W (30 dBW)
241 to 248 GHz        Secondary                  Secondary              400W (26 dBW)
248 to 250 GHz        Primary                    Primary                500 mW EIRP
                                                                        airborne
                                                                        400W (26 dBW)

                                                                        400W (26 dBW)

                                                                        400W (26 dBW)

                                                                        1000W (30 dBW)
                                                                        400W (26 dBW)
                                                                        500 mW EIRP
                                                                        airborne
                                                                        400W (26 dBW)

                                                                        400W (26 dBW)

                                                                        1000W (30 dBW)
                                                                        400W (26 dBW)
                                                                        500 mW EIRP
                                                                        airborne

5 MHz band note

                g) Where Radio Equipment is being used in the channels allocated between 5.2585
                     MHz and 5.4065 MHz (the "5 MHz band"), the following specific terms and
                     conditions will also apply:

            i) When operating double sideband, the maximum bandwidth shall not exceed 6 kHz;
            ii) Notwithstanding the maximum peak envelope power expressed in the table, above,

                   the maximum radiated power must not exceed 200 Watts EIRP;
            iii) The antenna height shall not exceed 20 metres above ground level;
            iv) The Licensee must not cause interference to the use made of the 5 MHz band by the

                   Ministry of Defence ("MoD") and must close down any apparatus that operates in
                   the 5 MHz band if he or she becomes aware that such use is causing undue
                   interference to the MoD's use of the band;

                                 94
v) Communication may be established with military or military cadet organisations by
       transmitting and receiving only in the 5 MHz band;

vi) Particular care must be taken to ensure radiation does not take place outside the
       specified frequencies within the 5 MHz band;

vii) Where the Licensee intends to operate within a "net" (a network), the Licensee shall
       observe the following requirements in relation to the transmission of his or her
       Callsign:

(1) The Licensee shall transmit the station Callsign when he first joins the net and on
    leaving it;

(2) subject to sub-condition (c) below, whilst participating in the net, the Licensee shall
    not be required to transmit the station Callsign when making contact with other
    participants;

(3) where the Licensee's transmissions have been other than in speech mode for at least
    fifteen minutes, the Licensee shall transmit his call sign when next he transmits
    speech.

viii) The Licensee shall operate the Station only at the Main Station Address or at a
       Temporary Location within the United Kingdom or Crown Dependencies.

ix) At a Temporary Location within the United Kingdom or Crown Dependencies, the
       Licensee shall give the location of the Station every 30 minutes to an accuracy of at
       least 5km;

x) The Licensee shall only operate the Radio Equipment to the extent that the Licensee
       can be contacted on a telephone which is located in close proximity to where the
       Radio Equipment is being operated.

                                                95
Schedule 2

Additional restrictions which apply to the Unattended Operation of
Beacons

Frequencies             Full Licence, Full            Intermediate Licence       Foundation
                        (Temporary Reciprocal)                                   Licence
1.960 MHz               Licence, Full (Club) Licence  (1)                        Not allocated
3.510 to 3.543 MHz      (1)                           Not allocated              Not allocated
3.553 to3.600 MHz       (1)                           Not allocated              Not allocated
28.0to 28.1 MHz         (1)                           Not allocated              Not allocated
28.1to 28.5 MHz         Not within 50 km of NGR                                  Not allocated
28.5to 29.7 MHz         SK 985640 (1).                Not within 50 km of NGR    Not allocated
70.0to 70.5 MHz         Not within 50 km of NGR       SK 985640 (1).             Not allocated
144to 146 MHz           SK 985640 (1).                Not allocated              Not allocated
1298to 1299 MHz         Not within 50 km of NGR                                  Not allocated
                        SK 985640 (1).                Not allocated
2310.0to 2310.4125 MHz                                Not allocated              Not allocated
                        Not within 50 km of NGR
2310.4125to 2350.0 MHz  TA 012869 (1) (2).            Not in N. Ireland and not  Not allocated
2390to 2392 MHz         Not in N. Ireland and not     within 50 km of NGR SS     Not allocated
2392to 2450 MHz         within 50 km of NGR SS        206127 and NGR SE          Not allocated
                        206127 and NGR SE             202577.
3400to 3410 MHz         202577.                       Not allocated              Not allocated
5650to 5670 MHz         Not within 50 km of NGR                                  Not allocated
5670to 5680 MHz         SS 206127 and NGR SE          Not allocated              Not allocated
                        202577.                       Not allocated
5755to 5765 MHz                                       Not allocated              Not allocated
5820to 5850 MHz         Not within 50 km of NGR                                  Not allocated
10.0to 10.125 GHz       SS 206127 and NGR SE          Not allocated              Not allocated
                        202577.                       Not allocated
                                                      Not allocated
                        Not within 50 km of NGR
                        SS 206127 and NGR SE          Not allocated
                        202577.                       Not allocated
                                                      Not within 50 km of NGR
                        Not within 50 km of NGR
                                                96
Frequencies        Full Licence, Full            Intermediate Licence  Foundation
                   (Temporary Reciprocal)                              Licence
10.4to 10.475 GHz  Licence, Full (Club) Licence  SS 206127, NGR SK
24.0to 24.050 GHz  SO 916223, SS 206127,         985640 or             Not allocated
                   NGRSK                         NGR SE 202577.        Not allocated

                   985640 and NGR SE 202577.

                   Not within 50 km of NGR SK Not allocated
                   985640 and NGR SE 202577.

47.0to 47.2 GHz    Not within 50 km of NGR SK Not allocated            Not allocated
                   985640 and NGR SE 202577.

Notes to additional restrictions which apply to the unattended operation of
beacons

(1) May only be used for the purpose of direction finding competitions. The Beacon must transmit
    the Callsign of the Licensee and it must be possible to switch the Beacon off within two hours of
    a demand to close down by a person authorised by Ofcom.

(2) It is permissible to transmit positional information using automatic position reporting software
    on a spot frequency of 144.8 MHz at any one temporary location not within 50 km of NGR TA
    012869. The maximum permitted period of unattended operation is 30 minutes.

Notes to schedule 2

     1) The Unattended Operation of Beacons is only permitted within the frequency bands:

       I. Which are listed in the first column of Schedule 2; or
       II. Which are above 75.5 GHz and are listed in the first column of

                 Schedule 1 providing that such operation is not within 50 km of NGR
                 SK 985640 and NGR SE202577.

     2) Beacons may operate with a maximum power level of 25 W ERP PEP.

                   97
A3. Notice of coordination

Amateur Radio: Notice of coordination
procedures

Overview

This Notice applies to all Amateur Radio Licensee, as set out under their respective licences.
This Notice specifies the protection requirements and coordination procedures necessary to ensure
the protection of other radio users from Amateur Radio transmissions.

Coordination requirements

General restrictions

Amateur radio use of certain frequency bands is only possible due to other users, including the
Ministry of Defence (MoD), sharing frequency allocations that they use. Where Amateur Radio use
of a band is made available on this basis it is on the condition that the radio amateur use does not
interfere with other services and can claim no protection from interference.

Amateur Radio use of certain frequency bands is also subject to additional restrictions; these are
detailed in Table 1 below.

Table 1: Amateur radio general use coordination requirement

Frequency                  Comments

431-432 MHz      The use of the following frequencies is not permitted
                        within 100km of London (Charing Cross).

Beacons and repeaters

The deployment and operation of certain radio beacons and repeaters are subject to coordination
restrictions. These are set out in Table 2 below.

Table 2: Amateur radio beacon and repeater coordination requirement

Frequency                  Comments

28.0 ­ 29.7 MHz  Use of an Unattended Beacon is not permitted
                          within 50 km of NGR SK 985640

144 - 146 MHz    Use of an Unattended Beacon is not permitted
                          within 50 km of NGR TA 012869

                 98
Frequency                                                Comments
430 - 440MHz
                                 Deployment of a repeater in this band is subject to
1240 ­ 1325 MHz                      coordination with the Ministry of Defence.

1298 ­ 1299 MHz                  Licensees must have clearance from Ofcom before
2310.0 MHz - 2310.4125 MHz                         operating a repeater.
2392 MHz ­ 2450 MHz
5670 MHz ­ 5680 MHz              Deployment of a repeater in this band is subject to
10.0 ­ 10.125 GHz                  coordination with the Ministry of Defence and
24.0 ­ 24.050 GHz                   Civil Aviation Authority. Licensees must have
47.0 ­ 47.2 GHz                       clearance from Ofcom before operating a
Frequencies above 75.5 GHz that                           repeater.
are listed in Schedule-1
                                  Use of an Unattended Beacon is not permitted in
                                 Northern Ireland and not within 50 km of NGR SS

                                              206127 and NGR SE 202577.

                                   Use of an Unattended Beacon is not permitted
                                     within 50 km of NGR SS 206127 and NGR SE
                                                           202577.

                                   Use of an Unattended Beacon is not permitted
                                     within 50 km of NGR SS 206127 and NGR SE
                                                           202577.

                                   Use of an Unattended Beacon is not permitted
                                     within 50 km of NGR SS 206127 and NGR SE
                                                           202577.

                                   Use of an Unattended Beacon is not permitted
                                 within 50 km of NGR SO 916223, SS 206127, NGR

                                             SK 985640 and NGR SE 202577.

                                   Use of an Unattended Beacon is not permitted
                                     within 50 km of NGR SK 985640 and NGR SE
                                                           202577.

                                   Use of an Unattended Beacon is not permitted
                                     within 50 km of NGR SK 985640 and NGR SE
                                                           202577.

                                   Use of an Unattended Beacon is not permitted
                                     within 50 km of NGR SK 985640 and NGR SE
                                                           202577.

Licensees wishing to deploy a repeater in 430 ­ 440 MHz or 1240 ­ 1325 MHz will need to obtain a
clearance approval from Ofcom as they will need to be coordinated with the Civil Aviation Authority
(CAA) and Ministry of Defence (MoD) before any transmissions may begin. Under the new process,
clearance requests for the deployment of a repeater in these bands must still be sent to Ofcom.

                                                            99
Clearance requests should only be sent once a provisional call sign has been obtained from the RSGB
and applicant has conducted the necessary interference assessment and has provided evidence of
this as part of the clearance request. If the clearance application is successful Ofcom will provide the
necessary clearance authorisation.
Clearance requests must be sent to spectrum.licensing@ofcom.org.uk.

                                                           100
A4. Special Event Station NoV

A4.1 Below is an example of the Special Event Call Sign NoV. Much of the existing text has been
         removed as it repeated provisions already set out in the main licence conditions. Text that is
         highlighted in yellow are new provisions we are introducing.
                                         WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY ACT 2006
                  NOTICE OF VARIATION OF AN AMATEUR RADIO FULL OR CLUB LICENCE
                                   TO AUTHORISE A SPECIAL EVENT CALL SIGN

 Licensee name and address

Date of issue of this NoV       ("the Licence")
Licensee's call sign
Licence 

Variation
1. Ofcom, in exercise of the power conferred by Schedule 1, paragraph 6 of the Wireless

       Telegraphy Act 2006 ("the Act"), hereby varies the Licence in accordance with Schedule 1,
       paragraph 7 of the Act, as follows.

2. The Station may be identified by the call sign [TEMPORARY CALL SIGN] ("the Special Event Call
       sign").

Terms and conditions
3. The identification of the Station by the Special Event Call Sign must comply with applicable

       terms and conditions of the Licence, as varied by this Notice of Variation.

4. Terms and expressions defined in the Licence shall have the same meaning herein, unless the
       context requires otherwise.

5. The Special Event Call Sign may be used to identify the station, when it is operating at the
       following location(s):

6. The Special Event Call Sign may be used only between [START DATE] and [END DATE] (both
       dates inclusive).

7. This Notice of Variation must be kept with the Licence that it varies.

8. In addition to any grounds for revocation given in the licence, Ofcom may vary the Licence
       to alter or cancel the effect of this Notice of Variation, if:

          a) It can reasonably be held that the Special Event call sign is likely to cause offence ; or
          b) Ofcom is satisfied that the Licensee does not propose to use the Special Event Call sign.

                           101
A5. Responses

A5.1 All non-confidential responses to the Updating the amateur radio licensing framework
         consultation are published on the Ofcom website. Due to the high number of responses,
         these have mostly been published in an Excel workbook.

A5.2 Where a respondent has not clearly signalled the confidentiality of their response, we have
         treated these as fully confidential.

                                                           102
