MENUMENU

Your Services

News and events

GB2RS

Regional news

RSGB notices

AGM 2026

Tonight@8 webinars

Special focus

Silent Keys

RSGB Convention

RSGB Construction Competition 2026

International Women in Engineering Day

All about us

RSGB Strategy

RSGB committees

Our teams

Our policies

Consultations

Contact

Organisation

Volunteers

Volunteers’ Week

Board

RSGB Regions

National Radio Centre

Radio Communications Foundation

Company information

Have Your Say

Careers

Clubs

Club Finder

Affiliate your club

UK events

Beyond Exams

Insurance

Events pack

Media guide

Special interest

School Zone

University Corner

Training

Course & exam finder

Student information

Trainer information

Useful Resources

Exam FAQ

Exam forms

Exam payments

Schools Link Project

Cadets Foundation licence application

Student stories

On the air

Apps

Live solar data

Live DX cluster

WebSDR receivers

Operating

Licensing

Band plans

Planning matters

EMF guidance and calculator

NoV applications

Beacons & repeaters

Operating Advisory Service (OAS)

Awards & programmes

Emergency comms

Morse

QSL Bureau

VDSL interference reporting

Technical

Spectrum protection

Amateur television

EMC

Forums

Microwaves

Propagation

Space & satellites

Emerging technologies

Contesting

What is contesting?

HF contests

VHF contests

RSGB Contest Club

RadCom contesting

GR2HQ IARU Contest Team

Commonwealth Contest

Activity

Outreach

Planning a public event

Special Event Stations (SES)

British Science Week

Coding and amateur radio

Practical events

Useful practical skills for new licensees

ARDF

HF DXpeditions

Radio Marathons

Transatlantic Tests Centenary

Membership

Membership Services

Login

Bletchley Park free admission vouchers

Discounted museum entry

Join & help

Join the RSGB

Join a friend

Volunteer

Renew

Renew your Membership

Hear from our members

Your stories

Shop

RSGB Shop

All products

What's new

Special offers

Other publications

Other products

Booking office

Membership & donations

Join the RSGB

Renew your Membership

Spectrum Defence Fund

RCF donations

Books

Radio

General

Publications & videos

RadCom

RadCom

RadCom Basics

RadCom Plus

Books

Books

Books - extra

Video

About the RSGB

The excitement of amateur radio

Practical skills videos

Technical videos

RSGB Convention lectures

RSGB Strategy

Syllabus resources

Young amateurs

Film archive

Archive

Consultations

Events

Publications

FAQs

General

Amateur radio

Becoming an amateur

Exams

Candidates

Trainers

Club exam bookings

DBS checks

Insurance

Clubs & repeaters

Programmes

IOTA

Operating

Receiving interference

Beginners

Getting started

What is amateur radio?

Getting licensed

First steps

FAQ

Your station

Setting up

Operating

Antennas

EMC considerations

Watch

Discover amateur radio

Foundation practicals

Useful practical skills

Aged 26 or under?

More RSGB videos

Read

RadCom Basics

Student stories

Your stories

Alex discovers amateur radio

Search

Special Contest Call Sign

Make an application for a special contest call sign by downloading and completing the form on this page.

Please read the Ofcom guidance below before starting your application.

Policy and procedure

1. Guidance

The holder of a UK Amateur Radio Full Licence or Full (Club) Licence may apply for a Special Contest Call sign (“SCC”). This call sign may only be used in amateur radio contests of no more than 48 hours duration, run with the aim of contacting as many other stations as possible in a given period of time and run by an amateur radio club, national or international amateur radio association or another organisation (including amateur radio publications), generally accepted within the amateur radio hobby (locally, nationally or internationally) as being a bona fide contest organiser.

The call sign will be in the format ‘G’ or ‘M’, followed by a chosen digit and a chosen suffix letter. Examples are G8Z or M7R. We have made 520 call signs available, (G)(#)(&)(A-Z) and (M)(#)(&)(A-Z), where ‘#’ is an applicable Regional Secondary Locator (if any) and ‘&’ is a digit from 0 to 9.

Although variations are granted by Ofcom, the Radio Society of Great Britain (RSGB) administers, distributes SCCs and also advises Ofcom on applications. However, the RSGB’s advice is only a recommendation, and the final decision remains with Ofcom.

1.1 How Ofcom handles personal data

We require this information in order to carry out our spectrum licensing duties under the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006. Please see Ofcom’s General Privacy Statement for further information about how Ofcom handles your personal information and your corresponding right.

2. Qualifying criteria

The qualifying criteria are divided into two parts, – one for contest participation and the other for your achievement in the contest. Both parts of the criteria must be met in order for a SCC to be granted.

Ofcom will also consider results from other contests, not listed in Table 1.  In those cases, Ofcom will assess the suitability of the contest for the purposes of issuing an SCC.

2.1 Participation criteria

Individual licensees (or the licence-holder in the case of club licensees) must supply evidence of having entered at least five contests from the list in Table 1 within the last five years.

If you are requesting a variation to an individual licence (as opposed to a Full (Club) licence), you must have entered all of the contests as a single operator. If you are applying on behalf of a club, the contests may have been entered as a single operator or as a multi-operator team.

Table 1: List of qualification contests

ARRL DX CW
ARRL DX SSB
ARRL 1.8MHz CW only

ARRL 28MHz
ARRL RTTY Roundup
BARTG HF RTTY (March)

BARTG SPRINT (January)
BARTG SPRINT75 (April)
BARTG SPRINT PSK63 (September)

CQ WPX CW
CQ WPX RTTY
CQ WPX SSB

CW WW CW
CW WW RTTY
CW WW SSB

CQ WW 160m CW
CQ WW 160m SSB
IARU HF Championship

Russian DX
UK/EI CW DX Contest
UK/EI SSB DX Contest

WAE DX CW
WAE DX RTTY
WAE DX SSB

WW-DIGI
RSGB Commonwealth Contest
RSGB IOTA

RSGB DX
RSGB 1st 1.8MHz
RSGB 2nd 1.8MHz

144MHz Marconi Memorial
RSGB 50MHz Trophy
RSGB 144MHz Trophy

RSGB March 144MHz/432MHz (counts as one contest)
RSGB May 432MHz – 248GHz (counts as one contest)
RSGB 432MHz – 248GHz (Oct) (counts as one contest)

2.2 Achievement criteria

2.2.1 If you use a UK and Crown Dependency (UK&CD) call sign to enter a contest:

The applicant must have accrued five achievement points from the contests entered.  One point is accrued if the licensee (or licence-holder) makes at least one fifth (20%) of the number of contacts of the UK&CD leader. Two points are accrued if the licensee (or licence-holder) makes at least one half (50%) of the number of contacts of the UK&CD leader.

2.2.2 If you use a Non-UK&CD call sign to enter a contest:

The applicant must have accrued five achievement points from the contests entered.  One point is accrued if the licensee (or licence-holder) makes at least one fifth (20%) of the number of contacts of the world leader. Two points are accrued if the licensee (or licence-holder) makes at least one half (50%) of the number of contacts of the world leader.

3. Application

Call signs for use in amateur radio contests are available to holders of the UK Amateur Radio (Full) Licence and Full (Club) Licence who can demonstrate that they meet the criteria in the section above.

Any variation that we grant will be valid until 31st December 2029, unless, before then, the licensee surrenders the licence or asks for the variation to be cancelled or Ofcom revokes the licence or cancels the variation.

Applications take up to 42 days to be processed.

Call sign choices: Please apply on the following form giving three choices of call signs, in order of preference. The RSGB publishes a list of SCCs, which is a guide to availability.

3.1 Qualifying contests

List at least 5 of the qualification contests that the applicant or club has entered within the last 5 years, together with the call sign used, the section of the qualification contest entered and the number of contacts gained by the applicant or club and by the relevant leader.

Overlay results are not accepted as qualifying criteria.  Being a subset, it is easier to gain a higher ranking within an overlay category.  Results submitted in support of an application for an SCC NoV must have been gained in the competition as a whole, not just an overlay category.  This ensures that Ofcom compare like with like, ensuring that all applications are treated equally.

3.2 Reapplication

When your variation expires, you may request a fresh variation for the following five-year period, keeping the same call sign, if you still qualify (see ‘Qualifying criteria’, above).  You must apply between 1st January and 31st December of the year of expiry.  If a fresh application is not received, the call sign will be withdrawn for a period of 2 years before it is made available again.

If the Licence revalidation date falls due during the term of the SCC variation, the variation may be withdrawn if the licensee fails to revalidate the Licence.

You may ask the RSGB to remind you about your renewal, using the following address scc@rsgb.org.uk.   While the RSGB has offered this facility, please note that it remains your responsibility to reapply, even if you do not receive a reminder.

Application

Download the Ofcom application form from the link below.

Application for an Amateur Radio Special Contest Call Sign

(6-page/Microsoft Word document)

Details of where to send the form are on the form itself.

Data protection

By sending the RSGB your application form you consent to RSGB collecting and storing your data from this application form solely for the purpose of issuing and administering the Special Contest Call Sign scheme and sharing this data with Ofcom if requested to do so.

In this section

Operating

Operating Guidelines

DX Code of Conduct

Operating Advisory Service

Awards

Band Plans and information

Beacons & Repeaters

Emergency communications

HF DXpedition Fund

Licensing, NoVs and visitors

UK Amateur Licensing

Operating Abroad

Applying for a Special Event Station

Permanent Special Event Stations

Operating for Visitors

Online NoV applications

70.5 MHz and 71.5 MHz NoV

146 and 147MHz NoV

2300-2302 MHz NoV

Above 275GHz NoV

GB2RS Newsreaders NoV

Special Contest Call Sign

International Prefixes

Live DX Cluster

Live solar data

Morse

Planning matters

RSGB QSL Bureau

Propagation predictions

WebSDR receivers

Connect

Radio Society of Great Britain – Main Site

Posts Index

Sitemap

Legals

Internet Guidelines

Privacy Policy

RSGB cookies policy

Accessibility

Contact

© 2026 Radio Society of Great Britain – Main Site. All rights reserved.

Cookies on the RSGB website

COOKIES ON THE RSGB WEBSITE

Necessary cookies

The RSGB uses necessary cookies to make our site work.

Necessary cookies enable security and accessibility functions on the website and allow features such as Membership Services login to work. You can disable these cookies in your browser settings, but this may adversely affect the website's functionality.

For more information see our Cookie Policy page.

--------------------------------------------------------

Analytics cookies

We would also like to set optional analytics cookies that show how you are using the website, so we can improve the way it works. These cookies are only set if you opt into them under the View Preferences option.

For more information see our Cookie Policy page.

--------------------------------------------------------

Marketing cookies

Some third party content providers featured on our site may use marketing cookies. To see this content either enable marketing cookies here, or opt-into them when prompted.

Functional

Functional

Always active

The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.

Preferences

Preferences

The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.

Statistics

Statistics

The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.

Marketing

Marketing

The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.

Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes

Accept
Deny
View preferences
Save preferences
View preferences

{title}
{title}
{title}

Manage consent
